
“This is going to go horribly wrong.”

“Yup,” Bremaut said, popping the ‘p’ as he stared up at where a heavily drunken Warrior of Light was balancing precariously on the Forgotten Knight’s stairwell bannister. At this time of night, the tavern was filled to the brim with off-duty knights, all of whom who were just as, if not more so, inebriated than Ser Aza. Bremaut was one of the unlucky few saddled with ‘duty of care’ – when midnight fell, he would have to help Gribillont chase out the unruly knights and drag home any too drunk to get back to their bunks. He had to stay stone-cold sober too, which, alright, meant he collected a large amount of blackmail material but...

Well, at least he wasn’t alone. Imette, a fellow knight also saddled with duty of care, peered up at Ser Aza with an expression of deep apprehension.

“Shouldn’t we try to stop him?” she asked, glancing around them. Everyone in the tavern was crowded at the bottom of the stairs, staring with hungry, drunken anticipation for the show. Gribillont just looked tired, rubbing a glass down as he ignored the spectacle unfolding in his tavern. Bremaut felt for him, the amount of shit he must have seen and endured with someone like Ser Aza knocking about his tavern.

“You can try if you want,” Bremaut said carelessly, already resigned to the clusterfuck in the making, “I doubt he’d listen though.”

“C’mon, Nid- Nid-dog shlayer!” One of the more drunken knights yelled up at Ser Aza, “Let’s shee th’flips then!”

“Hold on, I gotta- fuckin’, I’m preparin’!” Ser Aza yelled back, his words heavily slurred as he listed dangerously to one side. With a flick of his tail though, he regained his balance and he squinted down at his target below. A table, with one leg shorter than the other and prone to tipping over if jostled too badly. For a sober person, it would be a tricky target to land perfectly on anyways – but with Ser Aza so drunk he almost hit himself in the face when trying to take a swig of his bottle? Impossible.

The crowd jeered at Ser Aza’s perceived hesitation – honestly, Bremaut suspected Ser Aza could barely _see_ where he was aiming for, judging by how he was squinting – and that seemingly bolstered the swaying Miqo’te to newer heights of stupidity.

“Fuck ny’all! I can do it! Watch this! Three flips!”

And. He jumped.

Despite his attempts to be detached from the whole thing, Bremaut sucked in a sharp breath as Imette gasped in horror next to him. They watched in breathless amazement as the Miqo’te leapt right off the bannister in a surprisingly elegant move, tucked his knees in close and did one flip, then two, and…

_‘THWMPHT!’_

Everyone flinched as one when Ser Aza did not _quite_ make the final flip, and essentially _smashed_ into the table with a solid, meaty _‘thud’_. The whole thing teetered over to one side and with a yelp and crash, Miqo’te and table spilled onto the floor in with a loud, clattering _‘bang’_. Instantly the crowd roared with laughter, but Bremaut hurried forwards with Imette in tow, genuinely concerned. Bremaut had worked with Dragoons enough to recognise a bad fall when he saw one, and that had been a _very bad one_.

“Ser Aza! Are you alright?” Imette asked when they reached Ser Aza’s messily sprawled form. A dazed groan was her reply, “Oh, Halone help me… let’s get you off your face.”

For a brief moment, Bremaut thought that perhaps everything was fine. The Warrior of Light would get up, brush himself off, and then continue the night on as business as usual. That hope died a swift death when Imette heaved the Miqo’te up into a sitting position and revealed… oh dear…

“Ugh, son’da bid’thch…” Ser Aza hissed, a hand clasped over his face with copious amount of blood dribbling between his fingers. Bremaut didn’t need to be a Chirugeon to recognise a broken nose when he saw one, “Owwww… my faaaaace…”

“Um, that’s… uh…” Imette stared at Ser Aza, looking genuinely at loss before glancing over at him, “Bremaut?”

“Why are you looking at me? I’m not a healer,” he muttered, suddenly feeling nervous. Ser Aza looked alarmingly woozy, and not in the drunken way, with a large red mark on his forehead that told him what exactly landed first on the table. Shit, just what they needed. A concussed Warrior of Light.

“Oh shiiiiit…” one of the knights suddenly called out, “Ser Aza’s bleedin’!”

The crowd, which had been sniggering not too long ago over Ser Aza’s failure, instantly began shifting uneasily. The Miqo’te’s relationship with the Lord Commander, after all, was common knowledge – as well as the fact that Ser Aymeric was also very very _very_ unforgiving of those who ‘encouraged’ Aza’s foolish drunken behaviour. While a man with a very long fuse, he was a terrifying force to behold when truly roused to anger - and upsetting or injuring Ser Aza in any way was a clear, one-way ticket to achieving that.

“Uh, let’s- let’s go out an’ have some fresh air!”

“Y-Yeah! Fresh air! Let’s go!”

“Run away!”

Bremaut watched as the knights cleared the bar in record time, leaving only the regular patrons who were too jaded to the world to even bat an eye at the Warrior of Light bleeding all over Gribillont’s floor. Bremaut sorely wished he could join them.

“Ser Aza, how many fingers am I holding up?” Imette asked nervously, holding up two fingers before the Miqo’te.

“Uhhh…” Ser Aza blinked groggily, his gaze unfocused, “Wha?”

“He’s not even sober enough to count,” Gribillont’s voice suddenly piped up, much closer than before, and Bremaut almost jumped out of his skin. He turned to see the bartender standing there with a clean rag in hand, looking exasperated, “Thanks for chasing out my customers, Aza.”

Ser Aza squinted up at Gribillont like he was a particularly bright, blazing sun, “Y’wha?”

Gribillont just rolled his eyes, tossing the rag down on top of Ser Aza’s head, “Use that to stop bleeding all over my floor.”

As Aza clumsily wrestled with the rag – with Imette’s help – Bremaut suddenly had a moment of horrified clarity. As the only person here not occupied, it would mean he would be the one to report this incident. The moment he stepped into the Congregation of the Knights Most Heavenly with the words ‘Ser Aza was injured’ coming out of his mouth, the Lord Commander would no doubt swoop down on him with all the vengeful wrath of a dragon with a mouthful of fire. Bremaut felt a little faint at the thought.

“It… doesn’t look that bad, past the blood,” Imette was saying hesitantly, “A little bruised, maybe?”

“Can’db really breadb drew i’dho,” Aza slurred thickly, his nasally voice only confirming the worst. Bremaut forced himself to look, to really take stock of what injuries he was reporting – and winced despite himself. There was a lot of blood, even after Imette’s careful clean up, with Ser Aza’s nose swollen and clearly broken – bruising was beginning to darken around his eyes as well, as was the red mark on his forehead. His pupils, already that bizarre, eerie slit shape, were constricted so tightly they were very thin strips of black. Bremaut wasn’t an expert on Miqo’te physiology, but considering the lighting was very low in the tavern, that probably wasn’t good.

“Nothing a little White Magic won’t cure,” Imette said with forced optimism, “Or, or a potion! Ser Gribillont, do you-?”

“Oh, no no no,” Gribillont instantly shook his head, “Potions and alcohol do not react well together. Vomit is the last thing we want to add to this situation.”

Gross, Bremaut thought, wrinkling his nose.

“Hey, Knight Bremaut, right?” Gribillont glanced at him, “You should grab Ser Aymeric. He’ll be able to whisk him away to a Chirugeon.”

“Ah, yes, of course…” Bremaut said unenthusiastically. Casting one last look over the Warrior of Light, he heaved a sigh and turned away, clomping up the stairs. Why did this have to happen when _he_ was on duty? Stupid Pennix for suggesting this stupid backflipping dare. Bloody bastard of a Duskwight. He was going to stitch him up for this.

 

* * *

 

Aymeric stifled a yawn behind his hand as he determinedly tried to finish off the last stack of patrol reports before he retired for the night. He was _exhausted_ , and grumpy, to be honest, having to contend with a stubborn House of Lords for the majority of the day. The session had overrun, because the ‘Adventurer Guild Discourse’ had sparked a four-hour long debate that rehashed old ground over and over until Aymeric felt like smashing his head against a brick wall would have been more productive – which in turn meant he was late to work _here_ , to finish his review of these reports in time for tomorrow morning. He wouldn’t be able to crawl into bed until sometime around midnight at this rate, just in time to sleep for five hours – provided Aza wasn’t too rambunctious when returning from his night out at the Forgotten Knight.

 _If_ he returned. He was prone to simply passing out underneath a table when getting too drunk, though Aza had promised to exercise restraint tonight…

He jolted out of his internal grumblings at a tentative knock on his office door. He straightened up from his tired slouch just as the door opened, frowning when Knight Bremaut peeked inside nervously. He was on Duty of Care, which meant... oh, joy.

“Who has broken what?” Aymeric asked flatly, too irritated to bother with pleasantries.

“Ah, Lord Commander, sir,” Knight Bremaut muttered, still half-behind the door like it was his sole shield between himself and a lunging dragon, “There’s been an… incident at the Forgotten Knight that requires a Chirugeon.”

Aymeric sighed. A bar brawl? “Who are the Knights involved and how bad the injury?” he asked, already readying a spare piece of parchment to jot down the names to discipline in the morning. He’ll give them to Lucia-

“The- uh. It’s Ser Aza, sir. The Warrior of Light, in need of a Chirugeon, sir, for a, for a broken nose and concussion, sir,” Knight Bremaut said, his voice growing quieter and quieter with each word he said.

Aymeric paused. Tilted his head. Looked up at Knight Bremaut, “…pardon?”

“Ser Aza,” Knight Bremaut mumbled, “A, um, group of knights and himself got a little too drunk and, uh, a knight encouraged him to try a backflip off the top of the stairs, but he didn’t quite make it an-”

“Which knight.”

Knight Bremaut was practically hidden entire by the door at this point, “I’m not su-”

“Which. Knight.”

“Knight Pennix, sir!” The door yelped at him, “It was his idea!”

Aymeric wrote ‘ _Knight Pennix’_ in a sharp, angry scrawl before rising from his seat. “Where did you leave him?”

“At the tavern, sir!”

“Go get the Chirugeon on call,” Aymeric said, his tone perfectly mild as he made his way around the desk towards the door. At hearing his footsteps, Knight Bremaut threw the door open for him and raced away before Aymeric could say anymore. Hm.

Anger settled like a cold stone in his belly as he walked out of his office and through the main hall of the Congregation. Several knights on the night shift took one look at his expression and instantly looked away, moving out of his direct path. This was the last thing he wanted to deal with right now, _especially_ after Aza promised- no, he’ll remain calm. No need to make this a public spectacle.  

It didn’t take long to walk the short distance from the Congregation to the tavern. The smell of cheap ale hit him the moment he opened the door, and he stepped in and looked down, over the banister, to see Knight Imette leaning over Aza who was sitting on the floor, an upturned table beside them. Gribillont was nowhere to be seen, but considering the man was more than used to Aza’s escapades, had properly made sure he was fine and not going to die within the next five minutes before turning to his duties.

Aymeric took a calming breath before making his way down the steps. Knight Imette looked up, her hopeful expression instantly crumpling into nervousness.

“L-Lord Commander!” she barked, straightening up into a salute, “Has Knight Bremaut told-”

“Yes,” he said, coming to a stop before the two of them. Aza, with a bloodied rag pressed up against his nose, squinted up at him groggily. He already had two impressive black eyes, and a smattering of bruising over his cheek that, presumably, went over his nose.

“Um,” Aza began, horrified realisation dawning on him.

“What did you promise me earlier?” Aymeric asked him quietly, ignoring Knight Imette standing at an awkward attention between them, “Or are you too drunk to remember that right now?”

“Um, I remember…” Aza mumbled meekly, his ears flattening back against his skull as he looked like he desperately wished he could phase through the solid hardwood flooring.

“Then _why_ did I have a knight come to my office at-” he paused to check the Chromometer hanging on the wall, “-at eleven o’clock at _night_ , to tell me you were _backflipping_ off the stairs on a drunken dare and ended up injuring yourself?”

“Fron’ flip,” Aza corrected sullenly, then winced, obviously regretting the words the moment they left his mouth.

“ _I don’t care what flip it was_ ,” Aymeric ground out, his anger spiking before he forced it down with a deep breath. There was a lot more he wanted to say, but he swallowed it down for a more private moment and turned to Knight Imette instead; “Knight Imette, tell me in detail what happened.”

“Yes, sir!” she yelped, standing firmly at attention as if before drill sergeant, staring up at the ceiling as she reported; “Knight Pennix dared Ser Aza to do a flip off the banister onto the table. Ser Aza initially refused, but he and several knights goaded him over the course of an hour until he eventually agreed, sir!”

“Who were the other knights?” Aymeric asked.

“I-I’m not, I don’t quite recall, sir,” Knight Imette said uncertainly, her gaze wavering from the ceiling to the floor instead.

His gaze slid from Knight Imette to Aza. His partner had pulled the bloodied rag away from his face to check if he was still bleeding – he wasn’t, though smears of blood stained his mouth and chin, his nose horrifically bruised, swollen and slightly crooked. It may be the concussion and alcohol, but Aza didn’t seem all that bothered or pained as he carefully prodded his nose with bloodied fingers.

“Leave that alone,” Aymeric told him, leaning down and snagging his partner’s hands. They were tacky with drying blood, and after a brief moment of hesitation knelt down completely to better inspect Aza’s face, gently grasping his chin to tilt his head from side to side. His partner let out a small grunt of pain when he turned his head to the left, his ear giving an agitated flick, and Aymeric let out a soft tut.

“You idiot,” he muttered quietly, his irritation cooling into something closer to fond exasperation. Oh, Aza wasn’t off the hook, but he felt that he was suffering enough from his idiocy right now, “We are going to have a talk once you sober up, but for now… Knight Imette, go and trouble Ser Gribillont for some water and a fresh rag.”

“Yessir!” Knight Imette barked, practically leaping to obey his commands with the eagerness of someone desperate to escape an awkward moment.

“Let’s get you somewhat presentable for the Chirugeon,” he sighed. Knight Bremout must have ousted the grumpy medic out of his bunk by now – subjecting Aza to his tender mercies would be a punishment all on its own. “You look like a murder victim.”

“…m’sorry,” Aza mumbled quietly. He was the perfect picture of absolute contrition, his gaze lowered to the floor and his ears drooping. Something in Aymeric softened at the sight, though he carefully didn’t show it.

“It’s… not fine, exactly, but we will talk about it later,” Aymeric said with equal quietness, aware that there were still people in the tavern, even if it was the few handful that got themselves too drunk to recognise reality. He plucked up the rag that Aza had abandoned on his thigh, carefully finding the last clean patch to gently dab away some of the blood off of his partner’s face. It was tacky and half dried, so he didn’t achieve much, but it made Aza look a little better.

“You’re angry,” Aza continued.

“I am,” Aymeric confirmed, “But right now you’re drunk and concussed and upset, so we’ll wait until you’re in a better state before we argue.”

Aza made a low noise in the back of his throat – arguments were something he tried to avoid like the plague, but, honestly, sometimes they were a good way to air out tensions before they reached a breaking point, and this was definitely something that needed airing out. Aza was always irresponsible with drink, but he had promised to try and be better and not even a few hours after making that promise, he breaks it. It would’ve been better if he hadn’t promised anything at all, Aymeric thought with considerable annoyance.

“Don’t think about dodging it either,” Aymeric warned, “We are going to talk about this like adults – and you are going to promise me not to backflip-”

“Fron’ flip.”

“- _whatever-flip_ off of banisters again while drunk,” Aymeric finished firmly, “I don’t care if the Fury Herself descends from the Heavens to dare you, you will tell Her no.”

“Isn’db dat blasphemy?”

“I doubt She minds,” Aymeric said shortly, “Now, let’s get you off the floor.”

It took a bit of manhandling, but he managed to haul Aza off the floor and onto a chair, just as Knight Imette returned with a glass of water and a slightly damp flannel. Aymeric made a mental note to thank Gribillont later, and perhaps give him compensation for the table that was still lying sadly on its side, one table leg snapped in half.

“Here you are, sir,” Knight Imette said, thrusting both items out at him.

“Thank you,” he said, accepting both and passed the glass to Aza, “Drink this. Small sips. Knight Imette, see how Knight Bremaut is getting on with ousting the medic out of the bunk.”

“Yessir!”

“Don’db need a medic,” Aza grumbled. His words were coming out a little clearer now, but the nasal tone still slurred his speech, “I can straigh’en dis myself.”

“Please don’t,” Aymeric said, already envisioning how a drunken attempt to self-correct a broken nose can go horribly wrong. He fought off a shudder. “Hold still a moment.”

Aza obeyed, the glass tilting dangerously to one side in his loose grip as he tilted his head up to the gentle touch of wet cloth. Aymeric tried to be careful, wiping the dried blood off, but he occasionally bumped and pressed against bruising and broken cartilage, though Aza endured what must’ve been excruciating pain with only the barest of flinches. He kept forgetting how terrifyingly high Aza’s pain tolerance was.

The bruising around his heavy-lidded eyes gave him a drained look, his pupils dilated enough that they looked almost round. They only did that when he was exhausted.

“Don’t doze,” Aymeric warned, leaning away once he finished wiping off the last of the blood. Aza just blinked slowly at him, listing to the side slightly – Aymeric gripped his shoulder, keeping him upright. “Aza.”

“Mmm, yeah,” his partner muttered, giving himself a tiny shake and determinedly lifting his almost-forgotten glass of water to take a sip. Aymeric watched him carefully, making sure he was fine, before letting go of his shoulder.

It was then that the door to the tavern banged open, accompanied by the aggravated, rough grumblings of the on-call medic: Allert.

“-nose better be broken, to get me up at midnight,” Allert was huffing, clomping down the stairs. He looked like he had just rolled out of bed, his Chirugeon uniform sloppily thrown on and his hair a messy, dark mane that stuck up in odd angles. Allert was practically a force of nature and was one of the few medics who could pin Estinien down long enough to aggressively treat him with minimal fuss. Even Aymeric was reluctant to openly disobey him.

Trailing behind the grizzled medic were Knights Imette and Bremaut, both looking like chastised Chocobo chicks, huddling together as if for protection.

“Medic,” Aymeric greeted, unable to keep the exhaustion out of his tone. Right, it _was_ almost midnight, and he still had work to finish too. Sigh. “Apologies for the late hour.”

“Lord Commander,” Allert returned gruffly, his eyes landing on Aza practically half-asleep in his chair, “And bane of my bloody existence.”

Aza just squinted at Allert, looking utterly miserable, “Oh, Gods, it’s _you_.”

Hm? Aymeric was unaware Allert and Aza knew each other. Well then, it saved him having to do introductions, “I leave him to your tender mercies. I need to return to the Congregation, so if you could…?”

Allert just waved him off in a shocking display of casualness – Aymeric didn’t care, far too used to his lack of respect for authority at this point, “I’ll take care of your man. I’ll drag ‘im to the infirmary too, so he stops causin’ mischief here.”

“Aymeric, please don’db leave me alone wi’d ‘im,” Aza groaned.

Aymeric turned to his partner. Smiled at him, “Behave for the nice medic, Aza. I’ll speak to you in the morning.”

Aza’s expression could only be described as ‘dead inside’, “I’m never sleepin’ wid you again.”

Like Aymeric never heard _that_ threat before. He just let his smile curve into a smirk, briefly, to taunt his partner (petty, yes, but let him get his licks in while he could) before turning away to the two knights, “You’re both dismissed. Thank you for your services.”

“Sir!” the pair of them chorused – and practically fled from the tavern like Nidhogg himself was on their heels. He didn’t blame them, personally.

“Medic,” he added, giving Allert a respectful nod before walking away. Aza made a pitiful whining noise as he did, but Aymeric resolutely did not look back. Allert, despite his gruff bedside manner, was an exemplary medic and would have his partner pretty much good as new by morning – at the price of a few knocks to his pride.

Now, time to… return to his work. Fury give him strength…


	2. Aftermath

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> “I’m not-” Aza began unsteadily before he stopped and continued in a firmer tone; “I’m not self-destructive.”
> 
> Or;
> 
> The aftermath of WoL's stupid stunt brings to light some things that they really needed to talk about.

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> CW: MENTIONS OF UNHEALTHY COPING MECHANISMS, BEING IN BAD MENTAL SPACES AND IMPLICATIONS OF PAST TRAUMATIC EXPERIENCES. THIS TALK IS VERY HEAVY ON MENTAL HEALTH.

Aza woke up and instantly felt Regret.

He kept his eyes shut, breathing through the horrendous throbbing pain stabbing through his head. It was sharper than a mere hangover, and he very slowly rolled onto his back, hand coming up to press against his forehead as he carefully squinted his eyes open.

An unfamiliar ceiling greeted him.

“Fuck,” he hissed, closing his eyes again and bracing himself before he lurched up into a sitting position. The pounding grew worse, and he cradled his head in his hands as he slowly picked apart the pain signals. Hangover headache and… pain from injury? Gods, his nose hurt like fuck, and his _neck_. What did he do, break down a door with his _face_?

“Ah, he’s finally returned to th’ land of th’ livin’.”

“ _Fuck_ ,” Aza knew that voice, that awful, awful, _awful_ voice, and lifted his head up to squint blearily at the fuzzy image of _him_. Allert. His mortal enemy. “Why’re you here?”

“’Cause this is _my_ infirmary,” Allert said cheerily, a terrifying tone to hear from a man who looked like he ate metal shards for breakfast. He was grinning at him, hands tucked into the pockets of his Chirugeon apron, “Which I had to drag yer ass to last night, ‘cause you broke yer face. Lord Commander was a bit pissed off.”

Well, that explained why he felt like he’d been kicked in the face by a Chocobo, “Aymeric was… wait, what did I do?”

“If yer askin’ that, then ya know,” Allert told him, his grin widening, “Somethin’ about not exercisin’ restraint when you promised to?”

Oh.

 _Oh_.

Fucking _fuck_.

“ ** _Fuck_** ,” Aza groaned, hiding his face in his hands again, “Why did I… _fuck_. He must be so _mad_.”

“Spittin’ fire, almost,” Allert confirmed, “You missed ‘im tearing the knights who were with you last night new arseholes. Put the fear of Halone into that merry band of idiots.”

Oh, that was bad. An awful feeling twisted low in his stomach, making him feel queasy. Nerves, he realised after a horrified moment, that terrible knowledge that something bad was going to happen whether you wanted it to or not. He wiped his suddenly sweaty palms on his thighs, trying to beat down the cowardly urge to slip out and run to the stables before Aymeric collared him. Dodging it would just make it infinitely worse.

“Has he…” He coughed, clearing his throat, “Has he calmed down a little?”

The look Allert gave him could almost be called pitying, “Define ‘calm’.”

Urk.

Aza stared at the far wall for a long moment, prodding at his fuzzy memory as if he could unearth something that could shed some hope in this miserable situation. All he remembered was going to the Forgotten Knight for some catch up drinks with Sid and Rielle. They left early, just before the off-duty knights piled in, but Aza hadn’t been ready to leave yet since Aymeric had still been at work and he’d been feeling kind of down, so he drank a little more, just a _little_ …

But apparently not, because his memory was mess not long after that.

“I’ll help ya out,” Allert said after the silence dragged awkwardly, “You front-flipped off the stairs and smashed yer face into a table on a dare.”

Aza had… no recollection of that, at all, but it seemed fairly standard of his nights out. “That seems a little… tame?”

“Tame, he says,” Allert scoffed, “Y’really don’t get it, do ya?”

“I broke my promise,” Aza said with a frown, because he remembered _that_. Aymeric had asked him not to go too overboard and Aza just completely ran roughshod over it. He’d be pretty pissed too – actually, he _was_ pissed off. Why was he such an idiot? A fucking moron of the highest calibre? He hated himself there and then.  

“S’not just that,” Allert rolled his eyes, like he was the biggest idiot alive, “But I ain’t a fuckin’ love guru, so I’ll let you muddle through. Now, go on, get.”

Aza made an offended noise when the medic proceeded to shoo him off the bed. He scrambled to his feet, wincing when his head gave a painful throb from the abrupt movement, and squinted an irritated look at his _mortal enemy_ , “You’re a shitty medic. You and Crisp deserve each other.”

“An’ yer a fuckin’ menace. Now go get yer well-deserved tongue lashin’ off the Lord Commander.”

Aza flicked his tail dismissively, sticking his nose in the air as he stalked away from the gruff medic. The imperious attitude lasted as long as he left the infirmary, where he paused to lean against the wall to cradle his pounding head. Ugh, Gods, this headache was _awful_. How was he going to endure an argument when he felt like he had tiny Titans smashing the inside of his skull?

Experimentally he poked his nose. A dull ache flared – bruising – but nothing sharp. So, lingering effects of hangover and concussion.

“I better get it over and done with,” he muttered to himself, forcing himself upright. He could do with a shower, though, and maybe something to eat, but the moment he allowed himself to procrastinate, he’d just put it off and put it off until Aymeric hunted him down in an even more incensed mood. No, best to rip the bandage right off – and, perhaps, his pathetically rumpled appearance would soften his partner up.

He was a little unfamiliar with these parts of the Congregation, and a few of the knights mingling in the hallways gave him a wide berth, whispering behind their hands as he passed. It meant he couldn’t really ask for directions, not that he felt inclined to, so it took about ten minutes before he found himself in familiar grounds and able to head towards Aymeric’s office. Each step felt heavier the closer he got.

C’mon. He faced down Primals on a near weekly business. He could face down Aymeric for a… a constructive conversation. Easy.

When Aza finally reached his partner’s office, the knight standing guard gave him a look of open pity. He throttled the urge to smack it off his face.

“He told me to let you straight in when you came, Ser Aza,” the knight said, standing aside to allow him through.

“Thanks,” Aza said dully, not sparing him a look as he shouldered the door open without knocking. He closed it firmly behind him, even though he knew that guard was probably going to stand there with his ear plastered against it, bunch of gossiping hens that the Temple Knights were. He fully expected all the dirty details of this argument being common knowledge by the end of the day.

Aymeric was sitting at his desk, paperwork piled high around him, and at hearing the door close shut he glanced up. He looked _terrible_ , Aza realised with a guilty lurch, with dark, exhausted lines under his eyes and looking a little worn around the edges. He didn’t seem all that happy either.

“Hm, you didn’t run away then,” Aymeric said, his voice husky from fatigue. He set his pen down, leaning back in his seat in a near-slouch. His eyes were heavy-lidded, his gaze flat as he looked Aza up and down slowly, taking in his equally dishevelled appearance. “Did you just roll out of bed?”

“Did you go to bed at all?” Aza returned, keeping his distance. Normally he’d perch on the desk just next to Aymeric but… he felt uncomfortable, awkward, and very unsure what the boundary lines were right now. He stayed standing in front of the desk, the furniture feeling like a barrier. He didn’t like it.

“I took a power nap,” Aymeric replied, which meant that no, he didn’t. Bad sign. He got into a right shitty mood when he pulled all-nighters, “How are your injuries?”

“Fine,” Aza lied, determinedly ignoring the stabbing in his skull. The air carried a tension which made him jittery and he fought the urge to fidget by crossing his arms tight over his chest, anxiously drumming his fingers over his bicep. “Good as new, basically.”

His partner just gave him a long, flat stare, “Please don’t lie to me right now. I’m not in the mood.”

Aza winced, dropping his gaze to the floor, “I’m-” he paused, then heaved a sigh, “I’ve had worse,” he amended, “Just a headache.”

“’Just’ a headache,” Aymeric muttered, sounding irritated about something, “You hurt yourself quite badly.”

“ _Badl_ \- it was a broken nose and a concussion,” Aza said incredulously, looking back at him. That was _nothing_ compared to what Aymeric had seen him endure before, “It’s not like the time where I fell on my own knife like an idiot and almost bled out everywhere.”

“You could have broken your neck,” Aymeric snapped, his sharp tone bringing Aza up short, “Don’t you understand that? I don’t care that your injuries were ‘ _mild’_ , the fact remains that you had such little consideration for your own safe-”

“It was a _stupid_ stunt but not a fatal one!” Aza interrupted, his disbelief quickly giving way to indignation. What, did Aymeric think he was some decrepit kitten needing to be coddled? Aza was an _adventurer_. Him and danger went hand in hand, and Aymeric was getting worked up about a little drunken mishap? He thought he was pissed off about the broken promise, not _this_. “And nothing went wrong anyways. Well, I mean, nothing went _badly_ wrong, so why are you even upset?”

Aymeric looked like he was about to say something – but he snapped his mouth shut, closing his eyes as he took in a deep, calming breath. “I’m _upset_ ,” he began with forced mildness, “Because I’m getting frustrated with your reckless behaviour despite you insisting that you have it under control. There comes a time when your impulsive decisions become self-destructive and it _worries me_.”

Those words sounded rehearsed, like Aymeric thought a lot on what to say. Aza felt his heart beat faster as the implications of that sunk in. This was something his partner had been sitting on for a while.

“I’m not-” Aza began unsteadily before he stopped and continued in a firmer tone; “I’m not self-destructive.”

“Falcon’s Nest,” Aymeric said in an abrupt tone, “The dragon that almost killed you, do you remember?”

“Yes…” Aza said warily, sensing a trap but not quite seeing it.

“You were incapacitated near the end of the battle, and what did you do?” Aymeric didn’t wait for a response, talking over Aza’s attempt of a reply, “You used dangerous magics to force your body beyond its limits, to finish a fight that your allies were doing well enough on their own. It was an _unnecessary_ risk that almost _killed you_ – and that wasn’t the only time you’ve done that.”

Aza didn’t try to speak this time. His heart felt like it was trying to crawl into his throat.

“Countless times, you’ve-” Aymeric broke off, leaning forwards on his elbows, fingers lacing together as he hid the lower half of his face behind them. For a moment it seemed like he was struggling with his composure, but he mastered it after a short, deep breath; “I’m aware, with how things are, that there may come a day where one of us might die in the line of duty but-”

“You won’t,” Aza rushed to say, an awful, swooping feeling of dread hitting him low in the stomach at the mere _thought_. His mind wouldn’t even entertain the possibility of it, “I’ll keep you safe-”

“You can’t keep me safe, Aza,” Aymeric cut him off, his tone firm but weary, “I don’t _want_ you to keep me safe at the cost of yourself.”

Aza didn’t like where this conversation was heading at all. There was an unsettling pressure clenching his throat, making it difficult to speak, and he flexed his fingers into his biceps, unheeding of the sharp bite of pain from his fingernails digging into his skin, “But, I…”

“Aza,” Aymeric straightened up, running a hand over his weary face, “I love you,” he said with utmost seriousness, “But I can see you have a problem. Not just with the drinking, but with the way you view your own life as worth less than others. It _frustrates_ me to see you carelessly throwing your life around.”

Because his life was worth less than others’, Aza thought blankly. Because without everyone else, he wouldn’t be the Warrior of Light, Aza Lynel, he’d be back to the _thing_ he was before, that empty, cold shell of a man who only found worth in the enemies he fought. Like Zenos. No, he refused to go back to that, so he had to make sure to keep everyone _else_ alive and well and happy. If they stayed like that, then it was fine. Whatever happened to him was fine. A dead Warrior of Light was preferable to him being alive and alone.

He knew better than to say any of this, though. He knew… no, Aymeric already knew enough, when Aza woke up in the middle of the night trembling from the nightmarish what ifs of him failing, of them dying, of Haurchefant leaping to protect his exposed back because of his own _stupidity_ , of Zenos looming over him, purring ‘ _we’re the same you and I’_ of small hands covered in blood because he’d been too young and weak to- no.

“I can’t lose any of you,” he blurted out without thinking, his mind still half-trapped on those dark thoughts churning in the back of his mind, like a dirty pond with its sediment disturbed and swirling. “I won’t.”

Aymeric was looking at him carefully, concern clear in his tired gaze, “Aza-”

“No,” The pressure was almost strangling now, and he felt almost like an invisible vice was squeezing around his ribs the more he thought about it. He hated it when these thoughts latched in. He needed to get them out. Stop _thinking_ about it, _stop it_ , “Everyone’s going to survive and I’ll keep you all safe, right to the end, even if I need to throw myself on countless swords to achieve it. I will. _I will_.”

 _You’re afraid you’re going to fuck it up,_ Fray’s voice rose up – he couldn’t tell if it was a memory or being spoken now. _You probably will, but so what?_

Aymeric didn’t say anything. He was watching him carefully, while Aza struggled to breathe past the gnawing panic in his ribcage.

He desperately wanted a drink.

After a tense pause, Aymeric slowly stood up from his seat. He moved cautiously, like Aza was some unpredictable, cornered animal liable to spook at any sudden movements, skirting around the edge of his desk until he stood before it, removing it as a barrier. He didn’t approach though, remaining out of arm’s reach which- was good because Aza felt – out of sorts. He didn’t want him in his personal space right now.

“I can’t promise you that nothing will happen to me,” Aymeric told him, “Because I won’t be able to keep it. You know that, don’t you?”

“I won’t let anything happen,” Aza said roughly.

“There are some things that will be out of your control,” Aymeric leaned back against the desk, hands pressing against its edge as he bowed his head with a sigh, “No matter how much you drink to forget that fact, won’t make it any less true.”

He’ll _make_ it true, Aza thought savagely, even if he had to squeeze every last drop of aether out of his body to achieve it.

Aymeric lifted his head, his mouth set in a firm line, “I’ve said this before, but, you know I won’t judge you?”

Aza took several heartbeats to reply, “…yes, I know.”

“I won’t judge you for this, either,” Aymeric continued, “I don’t approve of it, but I understand it. I want…” he faltered, and for a brief moment he looked a little out of his depth, like there was a problem before him that he recognised but lacked the tools to fix, “I want you to promise me, that whenever you feel things are so bad you need to drink to help you, that you speak to someone first.”

“But you’re always busy,” Aza said quietly, “I can’t-”

“I will try to make time, no matter what,” Aymeric said firmly, stubbornly, though he sighed in defeat a moment later, “But, of course, I’m limited here so… just speak to someone. Your adventurer friends or… someone.”

Crisp and Bluebird would perhaps be understanding – they had witnessed more than a few of Aza’s spectacular meltdowns even if they dealt with the problem by taking him out to kill some monsters or run up and down a mountain to burn him out. But otherwise… this was something he didn’t show to others. It was bad enough that Aymeric sort of knew he was fucking _crazy_ but, the other Scions… no, he needed to be strong for them.

“I’ll… try,” he said, evading an outright promise.

“Promise me,” Aymeric said sharply, “I won’t fall for that.”

Damn it. “Okay, I… I promise,” he forced out, “I promise I’ll speak to someone when I feel… upset.”

It sounded pathetic when said aloud like that. He dropped his gaze, grimacing to himself. He felt oddly shaky, and he kept a tight grip on his biceps to hide the tremor in his hands. Just the headache, hangover, whatever – he was fine. Just… he ruthlessly battered down the dark thoughts in his brain, crushing it into a corner until he could breathe easier. He _will_ be fine.

“Thank you,” Aymeric murmured. He sounded a little sad, which made Aza’s stomach turn guiltily. He hadn’t intended to make things so difficult – he was ruining things here, with his- okay, no, it’s fine. He’ll definitely keep his promise this time, even if he had to bribe Gribillont and Crisp and Bluebird to cut him off or dropkick him in the head the moment he tried to get blind-stinking drunk, bad thoughts or no.

“I’m sorry,” Aza said to his feet. He felt lower than the stone floor he was standing on, “For causing you trouble.”

“You haven’t-” Aymeric stopped, making a small noise in the back of his throat. It sounded frustrated, “Don’t apologise for that.”

Aza carefully said nothing, worried about saying the wrong thing.

Aymeric was quiet too, and the silence between them lapsed… not uncomfortably, but there was a tension between them, lingering like a taut carbonwire. Aza stared at his feet, practically hugging himself, while Aymeric… finally sighed.

“I’ll be speaking to Gribillont,” he said, “To enforce a limit for you. Do you agree to that?”

Considering Aza himself had planned on doing that anyways… “Yeah, I do.”

Aymeric nodded, and some of the tension eased out of him, like he’d expected to fight over that particular topic and was relieved to find it painless. He rubbed his eyes again, huffing out a short, fatigued breath, “Good. I’ll do that… later,” he pushed himself off the edge of the desk, “Now, you should-”

“Aymeric,” Aza interrupted uncertainly, and his partner paused, looking at him patiently. He really didn’t deserve this man, “Are we okay, then?”

For a moment Aymeric stared at him in open confusion before realisation dawned. He let out a sigh, managing a small, albeit tired smile, “Of course we are. We… we may have to talk about this again,” he admitted, “But, we’re fine. Just, please be more careful with yourself.”

Aza felt the knot of nervous tension relax in him. He’d worried when Aymeric had been talking that he’d been having second thoughts but… okay, good. That’s good, “Okay. Um,” he hesitated, still unsure on the boundaries – this was the heaviest and most serious discussion they’ve had yet, and he wasn’t all that well-versed in healthy relationships. Was he allowed to…? “Can we…”

Aymeric knew him well enough to know what he was asking for. Wordlessly, he held out his arms.

Relieved and feeling kind of childish about seeking such physical reassurance, he stepped in close and into his partner’s warm embrace. He pressed his face against Aymeric’s chest, even if it did make his nose ache a little, and just soaked up the affection. He was squeezed tight, and Aza felt guilt and fondness in equal measure. He really, really didn’t deserve this man, but fuck, he was selfish enough to try and keep him no matter what.

“I’m sorry,” Aza said again, voice muffled against Aymeric’s chest, “For being a fucked up idiot.”

“It’s fine,” Aymeric said – then paused, “Well, no, not fine but…”

“I get it,” Aza pulled away, and Aymeric let him go with some reluctance, “Okay. Right.” A beat, “I should shower.”

“You really should,” Aymeric said, leaning against the desk with a wry smile, “You’re a bit, hm…”

“Are you saying I’m _smelly_?” Aza asked in mock-offence, but he could feel himself starting to smile as the heavy, dark mood from earlier receded, “Aymeric, how rude.”

“You said it, not I,” Aymeric said innocently.  

Aza ran a hand through his hair, making a face when he realised it was half out of its braid. Gods, he forgot to check that before he left the infirmary. He probably looked a fright, “I feel dirty. Too much talking about emotions… I’ll…” he paused, eyeing Aymeric carefully as he said; “I’ll go to your house to shower?”

“My home is yours, you know that,” Aymeric said mildly, not reacting to Aza’s hesitance, “I’ll be home a little early today. Lucia is overtaking some of my duties here to allow me some, hm, rest.”

Right, Aymeric did look dead on his feet. Aza had no idea how he was being as coherent as he was right now, with how his partner was blinking slowly, like he was trying to snag microseconds of sleep per blink, “Alright, I’ll keep the bed warm for you.”

“Hmm…” Aymeric’s smile was warmer, “Make sure to drink some water for that headache of yours.”

“Yes, mother,” Aza mocked playfully, stepping away, “Try not to use your paperwork as a pillow, handsome.”

“No promises,” Aymeric quipped back, though he did heave himself off the edge of the desk and made his slow, reluctant way back to his seat.

Aza chuckled, feeling like the equilibrium was restored between them, and reached for the door, “Goodbye, I’ll see you later.”

“Goodbye,” Aymeric said, and, because he could be a mischievous little asshole, added, “I love you.”

Aza jolted, his heart doing the little flutter it always did when his partner just dropped that on him without warning. Happiness and fear in equal measure. He shunted the fear aside, refusing to dwell on it, and murmured back, “I love you too,” before quickly opening the door and making his escape.

The knight guarding the door was looking dead ahead as Aza walked past, not budging an inch, but fuck, Aza didn’t care. The Temple Knights were going to gossip no matter what, and he knew from experience that the stories about him and Aymeric evolved and twisted until they became unrecognisable and stupid.

Now, he needed to do some difficult things – after a shower and some food of course. He’d have to tell Crisp and Bluebird to restrict his alcohol intake, even if… it was going to be difficult. It was so much easier to drink himself into a stupor to block out the bad things but… no, he was going to be better. Besides, Aymeric was right, he could have killed himself last night, and then who would be able to protect him and his friends in his absence? No, better to find a different way to sort his weakness out.

Talking to people… he wasn’t sure. But he promised to try, so he will.

He sighed. Easier said than done.   

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> Sooooo, yeah, that was a long time coming. As some people mentioned in the past chapter, and in other fics, Aza really does have an issue of self-medicating himself with drink, or using other unhealthy coping mechanisms to deal with himself. The role of Dark Knight helps a bit, what with being able to literally use his negative emotions to power up and having Fray mentally smack him whenever he's being too dumb, but he still has his problems that he needs resolving. It's gonna take a while, because these things don't magically cure themselves overnight, and there'll be relapses and lots more talks and disagreements and challenging his unhealthy coping mechanisms but... he'll get there one day. 
> 
> Put in a few hints of his past before Eorzea too and it's not... Happy. At all. He has enough emotional baggage to sink Limsa Lominsa, honestly. 
> 
> Please kudos/comment if you enjoyed! And thank you so much for the wonderful responses I've received on the first part of this fic! Sorry it was such a mood whiplash. I hope the argument/talk was what some of you were hoping for!

**Author's Note:**

> SO I JUST NEEDED TO GET THIS DUMB IDEA OUT OF MY HEAD and also I was interested in writing the few times Aza and Aymeric are at odds with each other. If there's appetite for the actual argument scene though, I'll be more than happy to add a second chapter to this~
> 
> Please kudos/comment if you liked! As well, a super mega massive big THANK YOU to those who've commented so far! I'm sorry I'm really bad when it comes to replying but I really appreciate it and each and every one puts a smile on my face and keeps me motivated to try writing more and more~


End file.

It was in Kugane one week after meeting Asahi that Aza had the pleasure of entertaining assassins.

 

It ranked, currently, as the third worst day of his life.

 

* * *

 

“No matter how much they try t’pretty this place up,” Bluebird slurred disdainfully, “Kugane’s th’same as anywhere else.”

Aza hummed in absent agreement, staring down into the amber depths of his drink. The air was hazy with fogweed smoke, the tables and chairs crowded together in this tiny excuse of a tavern. It was one in the seedier parts of Kugane that catered more towards foreigners with… less than stellar tastes, or those who didn’t possess enough coin to while away their time in the Shiokaze Hostelry. It was a good place to go to if you wanted to be drunkenly anonymous.

“Same looks, same smell, same weak ass ale…” Bluebird rambled on, waving her near-empty flagon about with careless abandon, almost whacking a passerby in the hip in the process, “Seriously, this is shit alcohol.”

“Didn’t think we came here for fine-tasting drinks,” Aza snorted, a little soberer than his companion. Truthfully, he wasn’t in the mood to get _too_ drunk. After his embarrassing moment back in Ishgard where he got so plastered he ended up getting into a mood with Aymeric, he found himself exercising some restraint. Enough to feel a very pleasant thrum of relaxation, his eyes heavy-lidded as he watched the antics of his friend.

“Well, _no_ , but…” Bluebird peered down into her drink, grimacing, “Next time _I’m_ pickin’. I mean, we still have, uh, another magical animal to beat up, right?”

“Yeah,” Aza picked at his memory, but the names of Byakko and Genbu’s other fellow lords didn’t immediately spring to mind, “Well, two more and then… K-whatever.”

“Kou… Kyo… uh…” Bluebird looked cross-eyed, “Uhm, some Doman name!”

Aza chuckled, knocking back his drink in one go. Bluebird was right, the ale was pretty weak and nasty tasting. He coughed lightly into his hand as he set his flagon down, his gaze idly skimming over the interior of the pub. All night he had seen people come and go in a constant flow – some stayed for a while, and others merely appeared to group up and then immediately leave, a dull cacophony of noise that successfully made every single conversation private unless the eavesdropper sat at the table they were listening in on.

“We can go to the Hostelry,” Aza sighed, realising that he had some business with the Centurio Clan anyways, “Finish the night off there before going ba-”

He stopped.

There was an abrupt shift of ‘ _threat_ ’ that made his ears instantly flick forwards, instantly rescanning the pub for anything different. This wasn’t the first time the Echo gifted him an abrupt warning when nothing was apparently wrong, but there was always a fifty-fifty chance if it was followed through. Sometimes even the act of Aza becoming alert or combative was enough to stave off an ambush, marking him as too troublesome prey.

“What?” Bluebird instantly sobered, sitting up straight and looking around too with clear, sharp eyes, “What is it?”

The sensation of threat eased a fraction, and Aza forced himself to relax in slow increments. “I think… we have perhaps outstayed our welcome.”

Bluebird said nothing for a moment, then, pulled back her guise of unsteady drunkenness, even if her eyes remained as sharp and aware as a predator hiding in the brush, “Pfft, as always. Well, c’mon then.”

They stood up from their seats and it was an effort for Aza to keep his hands relaxed at his sides. He had foregone his usual Greatsword coming down here and the space between his shoulder-blades itched at the lack of its comforting weight. Not to say he was unarmed, but there was nothing more intimidating than having fifty-five ponze worth of metal swinging down at you. A nice big ‘fuck off’ that worked every time.

It took a bit of clever footwork and shifting to gently move through the tightly packed tavern at a speed that was quick but not suspicious. Bluebird played the part of drunkard admirably, clinging to his arm as she cheerfully recounted some story that went through one ear and out the other. Aza put a bit of unsteadiness to his steps as well, watching with heavy-lidded eyes as they pushed and eased past groups and packed tables, moving closer and closer to the door.

Only for it to abruptly swing open, a raucous group of – judging by the accents – Limsan pirates spilling into the already fit to burst tavern. They were singing and laughing, and Aza and Bluebird had no choice but to quickly stand aside or get trampled, pressing close against a stained wall. He felt briefly claustrophobic; his nose twitched at the stink of seawater, alcohol and sweat and Bluebird tightened her grip on his arm as if to hold him in place, the pirates barging past and the door swinging shut-

“Excuse me.”

A voice, female, very softly spoken just at Aza’s shoulder. He turned without thinking-

_THREAT_.

-and flung himself back before he even processed the shrieked warning.

“ _Ow_! Fuck-!” Bluebird yelped as he crashed into her, sending the both of them near sprawling over a nearby table. Angry shouting immediately rose, noise of tankards and bottles tumbling to the floor, but Aza ignored all that, scrambling upright and getting his feet under him just in time to feel a knife slip, as nicely and neatly as it pleased, below his breastplate and into his ribs.

The air just left him.

“My Lord’s regards,” a woman before him was saying to him, non-descript, Doman, dark-eyes, as he found himself bending over slightly, the pain not quite reaching him yet, but his body knowing something was terribly wrong. She left the knife in, kindly, and before Aza could recover, slipped into the crowd with a grace that reminded him viscerally of Yugiri.

“Fucking _hell_ , Aza, what is wrong with-” Bluebird stopped, drew in a very sharp breath, just as Aza started gripping the edge of the table to stay upright, “Holy _fuck_ _WHO THE **FUCK STABBED YOU**?!”_

“I don’t… know,” he said dazedly. The tavern was very loud, he realised, louder than before, pain beginning to prick through that numb haze of shock. Someone was holding his arm tight. Bluebird was shouting.

“-ich one of you fuckers shanked him! I’ll fucking kill you!”

“It was none of us! You crashed into our table, when would we get the time to-”

“Oh fuck, we really don’t need this. The Sekiseigumi will come if there’s a _stab_ victim-”

“Who’s been stabbing people?!”

“There’s a stabber?!”

“Well, I ain’t staying here if-”

“ _Fuck_ ,” Bluebird snarled emphatically, “Fuck- hold on, Aza. I’ve got you.”

“I’m fine,” he said, breathless with pain and something else as he tried to curl over his injury, his hand hovering over where the hilt of the knife was sticking out of him. Wasn’t the first time he’s been stabbed. He knows – don’t move it. Keep it in. Go to Crisp. He’ll be fine. He was just- stunned. That was a straight up stabbing. The fuck did that come from?

“Thal’s balls,” Bluebird gripped his arms and hauled him upright, making his vision spotty when the harsh movement made the knife – shift. Grind. It definitely – on its heels came pain, a piercing, burning throb that sharpened and sharpened and sharpened with each short breath he took, “Fuck. That is… that is pretty stuck in there.”

Aza didn’t look, he knew better to. Instead he focused on Bluebird’s pale, alarmed face and shoved down that bubbly, claustrophobic feeling crushing down on his breastbone. There was no enemy to fight to help him shunt or channel the pain into anything productive, but the Echo still thrummed, hostile, threat, and, the tavern was brimming with uneasy and angry energy. Danger, his brain said, danger. Danger. Move. Go. Go. Go.

“I can walk,” he said, faintly, and he did just that. Bluebird made a small noise when he abruptly pulled away and made for the door, ignoring how his muscles pulled and dragged over the blade in him, how every step made his insides churn and clench. Move forwards. He would go outside. Then he would have space to move. Then he would go to Crisp. Then he would be healed. Then he will find that woman and kill her.

_Kill her. Kill her_ , Fray chanted, low and hungry, infuriated at his misstep. How dare he lower his guard that much? How dare he be too slow to defend himself? How dare he? _Shinobi. Threat. Others._

Of course. Aza was attacked, so what of the others? Alisaie was here. Crisp was at the Hostelry. Tataru. He felt like he couldn’t breathe from the thought of it. If they went for him, so brazenly… Bluebird was here and, that woman just strolled away. She could come back and-

_KILL HER,_ Fray was like a cloud of flies in his ears, a buzzing scream, _CRUSH HER_.

Aza managed to reach the door of the tavern, shouldering it open with Bluebird hot on his heels. He could feel her hovering, her hands lingering on his arm as they both staggered out into the narrow side-street, the hubbub from the tavern following them, and Aza took a moment to stand there and breathe. And breathe. And breathe.

“Okay,” Bluebird was saying in a tone reserved for skittish, deadly animals, “What’s going through that fucked up mind of yours? Talk to me, Aza.”

Aza looked at her. The pain was an ebb and flow now, and now that the shock of it had faded, he found himself easing and tensing with its hot throbs. Pain was power. Suffering was strength. He breathed in, drawing it out, and kindled that spark of dark aether in his belly, keeping it and holding it, breathing out…

“Shinobi,” Aza finally said, looking past Bluebird and at the tavern, “It was a shinobi.”

“Fuck,” Bluebird said, “Right, I forgot the Empire had a few of those.”

Aza felt centred enough to look down. The hilt sticking out of him was wrapped with thin, black leather and looked like something you would lift from a street stall. Cheap, non-descript, untraceable… but sharp enough to slip through the thin leather strap beneath his breastplate with little effort and right into the firm meat of his body. It seemed self-contained, though… the leather around the blade gleamed wetly, but it wasn’t that much. Little bleeding.

This was a warning, he realised abruptly. This wasn’t meant to kill him. This was a warning.

That…

“Aza,” Bluebird cut in, still hovering anxiously, still staring at him like she wasn’t sure what he was going to do, “Are you gonna pass out? Because I’m not dragging your ass all the way across Kugane if you are.”

“No,” Aza stared at the hilt for a minute longer, before deciding he would… deal with that later. Pain, pain, pain, he breathed through it, “This is just… a friendly hello, I think.”

“Okay,” Bluebird said, clearly thinking he was bonkers, “Sure. Friendly.”

“Friendly for Asahi,” Aza clarified, gently pressing his fingers against the hilt before giving it an experimental tug. It really was stuck in, he observed detachedly, letting his gaze slide out of focus when the sheer agony that shot through him almost made his soul violently launch itself out of his body to escape.

“Ooooh no no no, don’t-!” Bluebird slapped his hands away, “Keep that in, you fucking idiot!”

Aza swayed on his feet, but remained standing, “We need Crisp.”

“Yes, we fucking do!” Bluebird hissed, “This was why I said we should’ve gone to the Hostelry! But nooo, you wanted to go here and now see what’s happened! Fucking assassins! Shinobi! You have a fucking _knife_ rammed up to the hilt in your gut!”

“I’m aware,” Aza said, “Kind of hurts a bit.”

“ _Kind of hu_ \- right,” Bluebird clenched her jaw, grabbing his arm in an ironclad grip, “Okay, you are _clearly_ out of your gourd. I’m dragging you to that creepy Hancock.”

“Okay.”

“Then I’m gonna sic Crisp on you. I hope you _cry_ when she takes that out.”

“Okay.”

“Then when you’re better I’m gonna beat you up!” Bluebird continued to rant, dragging him after her – carefully, though, keeping her stride short and slow, “Warrior of Light, stabbed in a fucking tavern. I’m never letting this go!”

The thing was, she really wouldn’t let this go. She’ll be bringing this up for years. “Sure.”

“And stop agreeing with me! It’s creeping me out!”

 

* * *

 

They got as far as the bridge leading to the Aetheryte Plaza when they were accosted by the Sekiseigumi.

“We’re investigating reports of a stabbing,” the tall, stern-faced samurai told them, his gaze lingering pointedly on the hilt sticking out of Aza’s gut, “I’m supposing you’re the victim.”

Aza considered the samurai and his companion in silence, his danger sense still prickling uneasily. The samurai had walked from the direction of the Sekiseigumi barracks – which, normally, wouldn’t stick out as suspicious, but he would have thought samurai alerted to a stabbing would have come from the way they came having overheard the commotion. No one in that bar would have breathed a word about a stabbing if it meant bringing attention to themselves and whatever dirty business they had been conducting.

“No, m’not the victim,” Aza said, “This is… training accident.”

“Uh, yeah, training accident,” Bluebird added quickly, her grip so tight on his arm it was bruising, “Pure accident that we’re solving right now by going to a doctor. So, if you would excuse us-”

“We have a doctor that your friend can see,” the stern-faced Sekiseigumi interrupted, and his partner – an equally tall, expressionless samurai – moved a little closer to Aza’s unprotected side, “We Sekiseigumi are proud to offer our assistance even to foreigners, and that includes medical aid.”

“It’s fine, we shouldn’t trouble you,” Bluebird said uneasily, “We have a friend who’s a practicing doctor so, we’ll go see them. It’s fine.”

“We insist,” the Sekiseigumi pressed, and the pair of them stood in a way that discouraged any attempts to retreat. Aza glanced at either of them, noting that they blocked their path forwards, but also looked ready to leap into action if they attempted to dart around them or away. Hm. He should have known this game wouldn’t have stopped at the tavern.

Bluebird dipped her head slightly, looking nervous, “Um, l-look, I…”

As she hesitated, inviting the Sekiseigumi to move a little closer to what they perceived to be a weak link, her hand flashed over her belt and then flung the smoke bombs at their feet. A loud pop, a bang, and then white, acrid smelling smoke filled their vision, and Aza hissed when Bluebird yanked him forwards, making the knife jar nauseatingly against his rib.

“Runrunrunrunrun~” Bluebird was chanting as they barged past the stunned Sekiseigumi and towards the Aetheryte Plaza. Aza held his breath as they sprinted over the bridge and plunged into the early evening foot traffic that milled around the Aetheryte Plaza, blending into the milling crowd with only a few odd looks. His vision was grey around the edges but he bullied past the lightheadedness with sheer grit and determination.

“Phew, close…” Bluebird whispered, keeping close to his side as he very painfully walked with her, letting out a heavy exhale that was swiftly followed by a few short, pained breaths. That sprint knocked his breathing rhythm off kilter and the pain was slowly but surely scratching over his threshold, “Creepy samurai.”

“Mm,” Aza mumbled, clenching his jaw whenever his swaying movements made the hilt knock against Bluebird’s hip. Gods, they still had a way to go before reaching Hancock too, “Yeah. Not… Sekiseigumi.”

Bluebird shot him a look, her expression serious, “Aza? You gonna faint?”

“No,” he forced out, “I’m fine.”

“Right, which is why you look as pale as Crisp’s ass,” Bluebird said flatly, her gaze studying him. He really did feel clammy and dizzy, now that she mentioned it, “Holy crap, you look like you’re gonna be _sick_.”

“On your feet, yeah,” Aza said, swallowing down the lump in his throat. It was just the way he could feel the knife wriggling around in there – his insides really, really, _really_ didn’t like it. “So, please, stop makin’ me talk.”

Bluebird immediately shut up and shifted a few ilms from him.

They moved slowly through the crowd, trying to draw little attention as they skirted around the gently humming Aetheryte and towards the marketplace. The plaza was lit up brightly in the evening, and there were already more than few people drunkenly staggering about so Aza’s unsteady limping thankfully drew nothing more than the odd disgruntled look. Bluebird’s body blocked the knife from sight, even if it did mean her bumping into it every so often – agonisingly.

“Easy does it, easy does it…” Bluebird was murmuring, the pair of them walking over the bridge. A group of Kugane women were ahead of them, merrily gossiping about some play or other – Aza honestly couldn’t make heads or tails of it. He felt alarmingly faint, “Almost there. Just the market, then you can fall into Hancock’s loving yet creepy arms.”

“I wanna… fall into Tataru’s instead,” Aza slurred, the chatter around him building into a dull, incomprehensible roar. He breathed through the pain, letting it sputter into sharp, acid aether that kindled behind his breastbone. Not quite Living Dead, but primed and ready to go if his body tried to keel over.

“Don’t you dare use that,” Bluebird hissed at him, no doubt detecting the spike of dark aether, “You’ll make it worse.”

Aza slid a sideways look at her, “D’ya want me to swoon into your arms…?”

“No, fuck no, just keep walking,” Bluebird snapped, both of them making it past the retainer stall and turning down the long street. It was thick with shoppers, and the odd Sekiseigumi, but these must’ve been the genuine ones because they didn’t give more than a glance their way. Aza let his eyes slide half-shut, shifts of aether letting him sway and lean away from accidental shoulder bumps.

“C’mon, please don’t shit in my dinner now, Twelve,” Bluebird was whispering, tugging Aza out of the way of a Roedygan lumbering around with heavy crates in his arms. The sharp movement made stars dance in his spinning vision, “Just the corner, then we’re there. No Garleans, no Sekiseigumi, no Shinobi, _please_ …”

They turned the corner, exiting the marketplace.

And almost into the arms of a group of Garlean soldiers.

There was a stiff moment of silence as the two parties stopped and stared at each other. Aza found himself instantly alert, the pain crushing itself down into a distant corner of his mind as he straightened up, gaze focused, intent and predatory, on a tangible enemy within arm’s reach. A group of four soldiers, armoured, with one clear officer at the front, his black-matte helmet expressionless as his gloved hands tightened into fists. The Echo thrummed, hostility, but it was a pleasant sort that was edged with fear. Aza breathed it in.

“Warrior of Light,” the officer began tersely, “What a surprise to see you in Kugane. I thought you had returned to Ishgard to continue your support of its fledging Republic.”

“Are you sure you’re surprised? We just encountered a few of your agents tonight who seemed to be expecting us,” Bluebird cut in meanly, “Causing trouble and pissing us off.”

“I’ll have you know that they are not acting officially, if that’s the case,” the Garlean officer said uneasily, shifting his weight from foot to foot. The soldiers behind him looked like they’d been carved from black marble, like any wrong twitch would have them cut down. “We are here as a diplomatic presence, with additional orders to facilitate the peace process with Doma.”

“The one headed by Asahi sas Brutus?” Aza asked, his voice slightly raspy – but it had the additional effect of sounding more intimidating. He watched, with hidden glee, as a soldier shivered from head to toe at the sound of his voice, “We’ve met, he and I.”

“Oh, really?” The Garlean officer said tightly.

“Mm…” Aza drew out the noise, purring it, “A very passionate and zealous follower of Zenos yae Galvus, I’ve learned. Seems like a provocative message to make, considering Zenos’s relationship with Doma.”

The tension could be cut with a knife at this point, and the Garlean officer looked like he’d rather crawl up the wall and flee over the roofs than endure their presence for a second longer. Admirably, though, he stayed in place, tilting his chin up and letting the light reflect off his helmet, “A… unfortunate coincidence, and not an intentional slight, I’m sure. I hope you won’t allow that to influence your behaviour towards our young diplomat, Warrior of Light.”

The way the officer said ‘Warrior of Light’ sounded so remarkably similar to Asahi’s ‘Saviour of Savages’. Disdainful, irritated, as if annoyed that he had to use a title on something he viewed as nothing more than a mindless, bloodthirsty beast. It made Aza smile a tiger’s smile, showing plenty of teeth, “Oh, not to worry, I hate him on his own merits.”

One of the soldiers made an abortive movement but stayed in place. The pain was practically a distant memory at this point, Aza feeling drunk off the control he had in this situation and, what was most likely hypovolemic shock, so he felt content to simply stand there and smile, feeling the bubble of fire-hot aether churning in his chest. Would they attack him? They were out in the open, with Sekiseigumi only just around the corner. Starting a fight here would be the peak of stupidity.

A part of him still hoped they did start something. How quickly can I kill them, before the Sekiseigumi come running, he thought darkly, letting his gaze drag over the soldiers before him and picking out the vulnerable spots in their Kugane-styled armour. He could…

“I wouldn’t have thought someone as glorified as yourself would be so narrow-minded,” the Garlean officer ground out in clear, frustrated hatred. Aza really wished he could see his expression. “But I suppose a savage is still a savage at the end of the day.”

Ah, there it was.

Bluebird made a disgruntled noise beside him, “Can we _stop_ the pissing contest now, please?” she snapped, “I doubt any of us wants to get in trouble with the Sekiseigumi, so let us go our separate ways and bitch about each other behind our backs.”

Aza’s ears flicked in annoyance, but Bluebird squeezed his arm painfully tight, digging her nails right into the bared skin. His tail lashed, the fur fluffed out, but he obediently subsided, quietly staring the soldiers down with an expression that was openly displeased.

The Garlean officer straightened up, his hands clenched into tight fists, his shoulders squared like he was preparing to charge. He didn’t, though, regrettably, “Fine. Let’s leave the savages be, men.”

The soldiers seem to huddle closer together as the officer boldly marched forwards, as if close proximity offered them protection from the Big Bad Couerl that was Aza, apparently. Aza didn’t move. He merely tracked their movements with his gaze alone, still as stone as they marched past well within arm’s reach, and then behind him, their heavy footsteps echoing long after they turned the corner.

The wound in his side throbbed angrily, in time with the hard beating of his heart. He let out the breath he’d been holding in a harsh hiss, feeling abruptly and irrationally angry. He wanted to break something.

Bluebird was fearless of his bad mood, “You absolute _wanker_ ,” she growled, giving his arm a shake and making his vision flash white with pain, “All you had to do was shut up and keep your head down, and what did you do? Openly antagonise the Garlean fucklords! Idiot! Did Zenos kill off all your braincells when he beat the shit out you?”

Aza’s rage spiked, briefly, at that sore reminder, “ _Don’t_.”

Bluebird made an incoherent, angry noise, but didn’t say anymore. They both stood there, equally seething and staring in opposite directions, and slowly, pain began to prod through Aza’s consciousness, until his legs were trembling with the effort of keeping him upright and proud. He hated Garleans and himself in equal measure, then.

“C’mon,” Bluebird finally said, her voice tight, “Let’s get you to a fainting couch or something before you finally kick the bucket.”

Aza didn’t trust himself to say anything. He just let Bluebird drag him onwards, his head dipped low as he carefully compartmentalised all that angry, red mess in his head. Ever since Asahi, his tight control over his rage was all over the place. He was amazed Fray hadn’t made a reappearance to beat him over the head with his Greatsword, as if physically fighting all of his mental issues would make him a functioning, normal member of society.

They finally reached the Ruby Bazaar without further incidents, albeit in a tense, angry silence. Bluebird just barged right in, throwing the door open and striding into the brightly lit room. Although it was outside of office hours, the receptionist at the desk was still there, who turned a practiced smile to them before they realised who they were.

“Lady Bluebird and Ser Aza,” the receptionist began, surprised, “You weren’t expected-”

“Sorry to interrupt but we need to speak to Hancock and Tataru,” Bluebird cut in, “Aza got himself stabbed like a moron and we need something flat to put him on before he passes out.”

“Uh,” the receptionist’s eyes flittered to Aza – pale, clammy and dizzy – and then down, to where the knife was still sticking out of his armour, the leather around it gleaming wetly with blood, “O-Oh, my- um, I’ll get them right away.”

The receptionist quickly slipped out from the counter and into the back room. Bluebird made an irritated noise.

“I’m getting too old to deal with this shit,” she declared, dragging Aza to one of the expensive looking seats lining the wall and shoving him into it, uncaring of how it jostled his injury. “Stay there, don’t die, I’ll get Crisp.”

Aza watched her go with heavy-lidded eyes, listing to the side a little in an effort to stop himself from bleeding all over the chair. Bluebird was still angry, but he knew she’d cool off by the time she came back.

He found his eyes sliding shut that little bit more, exhaustion dragging him right down. Ugh. Fuck his life, really. All he wanted was to get drunk, and what happens? Rude shinobi assassins, potentially bribed/corrupted Sekiseigumi and Garleans. Kugane was not good for his blood pressure, really.

With this final thought, he found himself drifting off, just as he heard a door open and Tataru loudly shouting in surprise.

It’ll be fine. He’s lived through worse.

 

* * *

 

Laelius Pyr Vitus let out a shaking exhale as they escaped Eorzea’s Beast unmolested.

The Centurio didn’t break stride, and Laelius couldn’t gauge his mood staring at his back, but no one seemed to be in the talking mood so their cohort was eerily silent as they moved through the marketplace. He had overheard that there had been some plan to take care of Eorzea’s Beast tonight, but it seemed whatever it was had failed. The monster barely looked touched, only mildly annoyed.

Beside him, Marcus, a veteran soldier of many a battle peered nervously over his shoulder, as if expecting Eorzea’s Beast to suddenly pop up behind them, blade in hand. The thought made him shudder – many a tale had been spread of that creature’s cruel brutality and single-minded savagery. He had widowed many a wife, orphaned many a child, and disrupted the peace and order they had begun to impose upon the wildlands of Othard and Eorzea.

He was inhuman, whatever he was. Those eyes had practically cut into his soul when they brushed over him, and the dispassionate, uncaring way he regarded them, as if they were so insignificant they were unworthy of acknowledging, made him feel lower than the stone they trod on. It reminded him so much of Lord Zenos, so much so it made his stomach twist into awful, terrible knots at the thought. Lord Zenos had been a machine of unrivalled destruction, striking terror into even his own countrymen – to think Eorzea had their own version, one that, if one listened to rumours, was more powerful than Lord Zenos…

“What a monster…” Marcus whispered beside him, and the two other soldiers murmured their agreements, softly. Laelius glanced at the Centurio, but he was still marching onwards, making no outwards gesture that he had heard and disapproved of their speaking. “Did you see those beastly eyes of his?”

“And those fangs,” Another soldier – Virgil, maybe? – whispered back, “He was so short too, but I’ve heard he can lift and throw a fully grown male Roedygan like they weigh nothing more than a handful of grapes. Monstrously strong!”

“Well, _I_ heard he is immortal,” the last soldier – Florus – added, with the air of someone who shared this gossip quite often, “There is a tale, I’ve heard, where he had been run through with a blade, but he merely continued fighting as if it weren’t there, red aether rising from his body in some sort of Eorzean witchcraft.”

“I haven’t heard this,” Marcus muttered doubtfully.

“I have,” Virgil said, “I also heard he hunts and fights Behemoths… for _fun_.”

“And that he defeated Lord Zenos-” Florus began eagerly, only for their Centurio to abruptly stop and turn to face them.

“Enough,” he hissed, and all four of them came to a guilty halt, standing to attention beneath his invisible glare, “You will not spread these Eorzean lies amongst yourselves. They are nothing more than propaganda. The ‘Warrior of Light’,” he sneered this, “Is nothing more than a savage Miqo’te with more luck than sense.”

He paused, but they said nothing in response to this. Laelius knew that the Warrior of Light was more than just some lucky Miqo’te – he doubted he was a Miqo’te at all. He heard hushed rumours that he was actually some powerful Primal summoned by Eorzea to fight against the Empire, and after being face to face with that cold, careless creature, it was a rumour he was beginning to believe.

The Centurio nodded, “Be mindful of your words,” he warned, “The Empire does not tolerate its soldiers spreading misinformation amongst its ranks.”

“Sir!” They chorused, saluting, and appeased, their Centurio turned away and resumed walking, all of them hastening to follow.  

Still, though, Laelius couldn’t help but look back, even though they were far from where they bumped into Eorzea’s Beast. A lingering fear followed him, like he was being stalked by some predator, well out of sight.

Terrible. What a terrible creature, that Warrior of Light. What a pity his assassination failed tonight.

**Author's Note:**

> I mean, let's face it - I'm surprised The Empire haven't buried him in shitload of assassins at this point. Also I just wanted to write this bc there's a difference between fighting through pain in a life-and-death battle, and enduring it when fleeing. It was interesting writing from a Garlean perspective though, hmm, maybe I should do that more often....
> 
> Anyway, I got that angsty stuff out of my system. Now time to work on the far more fluffy and schmoopy stuff like that marriage proposal lolol 
> 
> Thank you all for reading and please comment/kudos if you enjoyed!


End file.

**Author's Note:**

> So this all came about because I loved fighting Nergigante in Monster Hunter: World, and was like, hmm, kind of want to write just a dumb little WoL verses Nergigante, but it just gained a life of its own and now here we are. First time writing action scenes in a veeeeeeery long time so it was interesting, but I tossed in some angst in there too because why not?
> 
> For those of you who unfortunately do not know the raw amazingness of Nergigante, [please watch this vid](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ia7ZOQgEsYg). It will explain all.

The end of the Dragonsong War did not mean an end to the fighting.

It was an uncomfortable truth that Aymeric forced himself to accept every day. Though Ishgard had made peace with Hraesvelger’s brood and those that followed them, Nidhogg’s vengeful legacy continued to loom over them long after his final death. His brood, scattered and leaderless as they were, still mounted erratic and disorganised skirmishes and ambushes on patrols and their outlaying territories. The Holy See was largely untouched, the brood no longer possessing the power to mount a direct assault, but they were still bleeding their camps and villages dry.

It had been a careful balancing act when Ishgard assisted the Eorzean Alliance in Ala Mhigo. They needed to send more than a token force but couldn’t risk weakening their defences when the threat of attacks was a constant worry. It was managed, though, and Ishgard had perfected the art of doing their best with the least. They kept Nidhogg’s brood at bay, as they had always done for the past thousand years.

When will that eventually end, though? The brood were deaf to reasoning or bargaining – they had become increasingly savage and maddened with the fall of Nidhogg, with reports of them practically throwing themselves upon bared lances and swords, snarling and gnashing their fangs long after the life had left their eyes. They made up for their dwindling numbers with a single-minded, suicidal determination to murder anything carrying Ishgardian colours – or Aza.

They very much _loathed_ Aza’s existence.

 

* * *

 

“I’m beginning to think they may have a grudge.”

Bluebird was staring down at the dragon lying sprawled in the snow, its hulking body littered with numerous wounds that oozed a dark red blood. The snow all around was speckled pink, and she grimaced when Aza firmly planted his foot against its neck and started the arduous task of wrenching his greatsword out of its skull.

“This is the-” he grunted and yanked, the blade coming free with a sickening squelch, “-ugh. Fourth time today I’ve had a dragon come screaming down from the heavens, trying to eat me.”

“Well, you did kill their sire,” Bluebird pointed out, wiping her blood-steaked palms on her breeches, “They’re probably still pissed about that.”

“But that happened _months_ ago…” Aza grumbled, inspecting his gore covered sword, “This is putting a dampener on my fishing.”

Bluebird smirked, her amusement returning, “You’re complaining about fighting something? Weren’t you the one begging me to come with you because, and I quote, ‘fishing is soooo boring by yourself, Bluebird, but I don’t want to pay the inflated prices on the marketboard~ Please come with me so I’m not bored~’’”

“I refuse to pay those prices,” Aza scowled, embedding his greatsword into the ground and resting on its wide guard, “Have you _seen_ how ridiculous they get? I saw someone sell a Joan Trout for nine million gil. Nine _million_. Who the fuck is going to pay that much for a _fish_?”

“It’s a pretty rare fish.”

“It’s a _fish_ ,” Aza sneered, “One that I can get myself for free, thank you very much. Nine million. Fucking Hell.”

Bluebird wondered what it said about Aza that he got more annoyed over inflated market prices than dragons trying to eat him.

“Anyway…” Aza looked down at the dead dragon with a frown, “What should I do about this?”

“Hmm…” Bluebird looked down too, tapping her bottom lip, “We can skin ‘em?”

“Ugh. Effort, though.”

“Eat him?”

“Yeah, sure, just let me construct a giant oven in the middle of this frozen wasteland,” Aza said flatly, “Seriously, Bluebird?”

Bluebird shrugged and pointed in the direction of Falcon’s Nest, “Or we can go back to civilisation and cry to the guards that you’re getting bullied by big, mean dragons.”

“I’m bullying _them_ , more like,” Aza said, quietly affronted, “They barely last a minute, despite their determination to kill me.”

Bluebird slid a glance his way. Despite all the blood making him appear like a murder victim, he was relatively untouched. His hair was dishevelled and his armour had a few scuff marks and stains, but otherwise he wasn’t even the slightest bit winded. Bluebird was intensely jealous of his stamina sometimes.

“Maybe let them get a free hit in if it bothers you so much,” she suggested a mite snippily, “You know, give yourself a handicap of a few broken ribs, or a missing limb, or something.”

Aza laughed like she told a cute joke, “Oh, Bluebird, you card.”

Bluebird rolled her eyes, casting one last look at the dragon. It really did seem like a waste to leave it, but it was much bigger than the last three. Unless they wanted to spend the next hour or so painstakingly skinning it for its valuable leather, it was best to leave it out in the cold for the wolves to feed on it.

Aza heaved his sword out of the ground, swinging it over his shoulder and letting the magnetic locks secure it. He seemed to dither for a moment before turning towards Falcon’s Nest and beginning to trudge through the ankle-deep snow, “C’mon, let’s go back.”

“Giving up on your fishing trip?” Bluebird asked, privately relieved. Unlike Aza she didn’t find much enjoyment having man-eating monsters leap out at her on a regular basis. She especially didn’t like being the only other person fighting alongside him. Not because she bought into the rumours that Aza was some psychopath barely in control of himself on the battlefield – she knew him _before_ Eorzea, thank you very much, she knew just how fucked up he was from first hand experience. It was just he had a habit of running headlong into battle like the muscle-headed moron that he was and without Crisp there to rein him in or keep his _blood_ in, Bluebird was the one that had to endure the stress of trying to remember whether they stashed some potions or not before going out on their jolly outing.

(The answer was this time: no. No, they hadn’t brought any potions, a fact she was becoming uncomfortably aware of the longer they stayed out here)

“The smell of blood is starting to make even me queasy,” Aza admitted, “We’ll take a rest at the inn and try again to…morrow…”

He trailed off, his steps slowing until he was standing still, his head slightly cocked to the side. Bluebird instantly stilled, turning her head this way and that to spot any looming threat in the snowy distance. There was nothing out of the ordinary, though the snow was coming down a littler harder, the wind picking up enough to make her cheeks sting from cold.

“Aza?”

“Hm… nothing, I guess,” Aza said slowly, sounding unsure. His ears were flicked forwards, listening for something, but after a tense pause they flicked back lazily, “I thought I heard something.”

Normally that was code for ‘I’ve detected an enemy but they’re so beneath my notice that I will pretend they don’t exist while utterly forgetting that most people aren’t superhuman monsters like myself’ so Bluebird didn’t relax in the slightest.

“Something.”

“Mmhm.”

Aza didn’t elaborate. He just continued walking, his tail swishing from side to side. Bluebird hurried to keep up, prepared to use him as a meatshield the moment the enemy popped out of the snow like a daisy.

But the walk was largely uneventful. Falcon’s Nest slowly loomed in the distance, becoming starker in the snowy backdrop as they approached. Bluebird found herself relaxing when they were close enough to see the guards milling about on its walls, the distant chatter of civilisation whispering on the wind. Falcon’s Nest had seen a large boost of support since the Ishgardian Republic stabilised itself. From what she understood they were determined to set it up as firmly as possible before trying to secure old villages and settlements out in the Western Highlands.

No idea why since it was still a frozen wasteland, but, hey, maybe they just wanted their land back, even if it was shit.

But, anyways, it seemed like Bluebird got nervous for nothing. They were almost within Falcon’s Nest’s walls where she could crawl into a bath and defrost-

As if to spite her, something in the distance _roared_.

Aza stopped. Bluebird stopped. The guards, only fifty yalms away on the walls stopped too. The roar echoed oddly before it faded, and Aza half-pivoted towards it, his ears flicked forwards in interest. Bluebird closed her eyes, cursing her luck. They were within the shadows of Falcon’s Nest’s walls for fuck’s sake.

The roar echoed again, louder, angrier, and the guards immediately shouted a warning, a bell swiftly following. “DRAGON!” she heard someone bellow at the top of their lungs, “DRAGON INBOUND!”

Fuck her life, honestly!

Despite everything telling her to just keep her eyes closed and will away reality, she opened them and turned, seeing something dark flying in the distance towards them. It looked small, but, as it approached, Bluebird came to the horrified realisation that this was the largest dragon of the day yet, and the last one had already been large enough to bite her in half.

“Oh, fuck me sideways…” she groaned.

The dragon didn’t land so much as it smashed into the snow, throwing up a powdery haze as it thrashed itself onto its feet with a gurgling noise that made every instinct Bluebird possessed shudder. As the snow settled, the dragon shook its head and locked its yellow, slitted eyes onto them, fangs bared in a fearsome snarl.

Aza, the idiot that he was, stared back curiously.

“Hmm… you’re new,” he said slowly, taking in the dragon’s form. It was fucking _ripped_ , with thick, muscular arms and also barrel-chested, like some terrifying Behemoth-Dragon hybrid. Its wings were large and bristling with spikes… actually, scratch that, its entire body was bristling with spikes, pitch black and sharp looking. Its head carried thick, white horns reminiscent to a bull, and she could already envision what horrible, messy death she’d get from being smashed by those things.

The dragon gurgled, an alien clicking noise that carried unpleasantly. The guards were yelling, though Bluebird wasn’t paying attention to that, very carefully stepping back and away as Aza and Dragon stared each other down.

Aza shifted his weight, his stance widening though his hands remained relaxed by his sides, “Here to avenge Nidhogg too?”

The dragon didn’t reply. Well, verbally. It flapped its wings, once, twice, launching its bulky form high into the air and-

Bluebird remembered how it landed, realised that it was just high enough to launch itself down like a comet on their position. She didn’t need the Echo to realise that – and a near lifetime of fighting at Aza’s side made her recognise the way his body tensed and shift, automatically mirroring his movements as the Dragon _howled_ , at the apex of its flight-assisted vertical leap, its body leaning forwards, wings tucking close like an eagle preparing to dive-

Aza and Bluebird both dived in opposite directions, just as the dragon smashed down upon them with enough force to make the earth tremble. 

 

* * *

 

Aymeric sighed as he shuffled through the latest reports from their outer territories. There were more sightings and altercations with the remnants of Nidhogg’s brood by the day, a fact that was going to give him grey hairs at this rate. Lord Drillmont seemed certain that these were the final death throes of a beast in a trap, but it was still causing so much damage politically. People were already uneasy and suspicious of their peace treaty with Hraesvelger’s brood, soothed only by the promise that they would no longer have to lose sons and daughters to the endless Dragonsong War. But while the war was over, Nidhogg’s brood was still stealing lives away. It was almost as if nothing had changed.

He leaned back in his seat, rubbing the bridge of his nose. He could petition help from the other City States… ask them to bolster their patrols or flush out the bolt holes the brood was hiding in between raids. That carried the risk of ruffling more than a few feathers both within the House of Lords and in the smallfolk – Ishgardians were so used to dealing with this by themselves, they’d view asking for help as a sign of weakness. It could get ugly.

Or… he could ask Aza to investigate. The thought made him feel uncomfortable, though, already aware that he asked much of him already. Aza always agreed to help quite happily, but there were days where Aymeric felt like he was using him a little too much. Aza surely had other worries to attend to, such as that Auspices thing he spoke to him about last night. Battling Gods of a different sort surely required more attention than desperate ambushes from a fading brood.

He’ll think on it. At the moment the attacks weren’t serious enough to warrant much change in their usual procedure. With that decided, Aymeric neatly pushed the reports aside, turning his attention to the more political paperwork – he was still catching up on the policy changes and petitions during his absence in Ala Mhigo, so he still needed to-

“Lord Commander!”

He looked up sharply when a Temple Knight rushed in in barely contained urgency, Lucia hot on his heels. Her face was grim, and Aymeric felt a knot clench in his stomach as he focused on the knight struggling to catch his breath, practically gasping for air on trembling legs. A runner?

“What is it?” he asked sharply.

“A-Attack on… on Falcon’s Nest, sir!” The knight wheezed, pausing to swallow thickly before continuing in a more steadier voice, “A dragon has attacked it! The Warrior of Light was in the vicinity and intercepted it but, but it’s terribly powerful, sir! I was sent to request reinforcements! Our cannons and ballistae, they… the dragon’s hide is too thick to pierce and it has already destroyed the northernmost wall, sir!”

Aymeric barely held back a curse, instantly standing. Lucia looked poised to leap into action, and he gave her a nod. She swiftly vanished to round up the Dragoons to meet this threat.

“Who else is fighting with the Warrior of Light?” Aymeric asked, rounding the desk, “Were any of his companions with him?”

“Just the- the Au Ra girl,” The knight stammered, “I’m not sure. Everything happened so fast when the dragon arrived, but, I know his chocobo isn’t with him. I- I was told to get it from the stables as soon as I finished reporting to you.”

“Go now,” Aymeric ordered, a horrible feeling creeping over him at that. He knew Aza’s chocobo was well trained in the healing arts, to better suit his battle style, and if she wasn’t there… “Release his War Chocobo from the stables and bring it back to him immediately.”

“Sir!” The knight hurriedly bowed and ran out as fast as he came – Lucia stepped back into his office only a few seconds after.

“The Dragoons are mobilising,” Lucia reported, straight-backed and grim, “They will arrive at Falcon’s Nest within the hour.”

Aymeric nodded distractedly, his mind already churning over these events. Falcon’s Nest had been left largely alone – so close to the Holy See, its defences were strong and its position deeply entrenched. There had been the odd few fly-by from the more fool-hardy dragons, but they were always shot down by ballistae or did minimal structural damage. They got complacent, he realised, and the dragons must have capitalised on that. Thank the Fury Aza had been in the area.

“We should-” Aymeric stopped, frowning when he realised he _couldn’t_ personally run to Falcon’s Nest’s aid. He would need to inform the Houses, his counterpart and then act as liaison between the forces here and in Falcon’s Nest. Frustration bubbled up in him at that – just like in the Grand Melee, just like with Nidhogg, Aymeric was once more delegated to the sidelines while Aza squared up against the threat. It was a realisation that cut deep, but he quickly stifled the emotion to be dealt with at a more appropriate time.

“You should go to Falcon’s Nest,” Aymeric continued, “I trust you to handle the situation, Lucia.”

“Sir,” Lucia saluted, “I will keep an eye out for the Warrior of Light.”

Trust her to pick up on that… “Thank you.”

Lucia left, no doubt to join the Dragoons, and Aymeric took a deep breath. The Lord Commander always was a step away from the battlefield – being too close meant you couldn’t see the whole picture, focusing too narrowly on what was directly ahead of you, instead of the enemy closing in behind. He told himself that, firmly, and strode out of his office to inform the Houses of the situation.

Even if Aza was involved, Aymeric needed to keep his distance.

 

* * *

 

 

Bluebird hated Aza with every fibre of her being.

“If I somehow live through this, I’m gonna kill him,” she vowed under her breath, peeking over the edge of the wall with her Garlean binoculars that she pilfered from a Castrum a while back. She tracked the hulking, black dragon rampaging across the churned-up snow, intent on the small form nimbly evading and dodging under its wild, furious swings.

Aza could most fast when he wanted to.                  

“Fuck,” Bluebird hissed, ducking down when the dragon pretty much _ripped up the ground_ with a powerful heave of its forelegs. Chunks of stone and earth when flying over the wall she was hiding behind, followed by a cry of pain from someone further down who must’ve been too slow to duck. She hastily straightened up again, just in time to see the dragon rear up on its hind legs, wings spread wide and spikes bristling.

“DIVE-BOMB!” she yelled, ducking back down as the dragon took flight with a thunderous roar.

The warning was echoed in various degrees of terrified panic, and Bluebird gritted her teeth when the dragon smashed back down into the ground, the wall making an unhealthy crunching noise when the black spikes smashed into them. Yeah, they found very early on that those spikes flew _everywhere_ whenever the damn thing crash landed. She’d already seen one of those spikes run a man straight through and she very much did not want to endure the same experience.

This fight was insane – well, insan _er_ than their usual ones. Normally this would be fine. Normally there’d be Crisp and Papaya and maybe a few other lads to dance around this Behemoth-Dragon and have it all be a fun laugh at the end of the day. With just herself and Aza? No. Nope. Not a fun time. Not at all. This was terrible. Awful. She almost died seven times already until Aza made her retreat, and Gods know how the _fuck_ he was still _standing_.

The knights began yelling, and she watched as they scurried around, reloading ballistae and cannons that had been hastily pulled from other parts of the camp to arm the half-crumbled wall. Not that they seemed to be doing much since the dragon found the bolts and cannonfire mere nuisances at best, but she supposed the knights didn’t want to sit here twiddling their thumbs while Aza did all the hard work.

She let her head loll back, her hand pressing against her side. The wound there still ached terribly – healed by a harried passing chirugeon, but only enough so that she didn’t bleed out here and now. She felt so useless. It was a bitter pill to swallow, but without the others to support them, she couldn’t keep up with the more robust Aza.

The dragon roared, earth raining over the wall again as it continued tearing up the place in its single-minded mission to crush the Warrior of Light underfoot.

 

* * *

 

Aza was fairly certain he had broken a few things.

It was a sort of vague, detached knowledge, though, because everything else was intent on the snarling jaws snapping and lunging at him. He twisted and ducked and dived, only able to deliver the occasional glancing strike when the dragon paused long enough for him to do more than scrambling about like a terrified rabbit. Which he wasn’t. Terrified.

He was _exhilarated_.

His muscles burned, his bones ached, his lungs hurt and gods, he was sweating like a fucking animal, _but it was so good_. Not even Byakko at the height of his fury pushed him so hard. This was – _furycrushattackdestroy_ incarnate. The dragon advanced. It smashed. It tore. Gusts of white, panted air past sharp, white teeth, jaws constantly snapping, always only mere ilms from him, snapping, gnashing, _very close_ , yellow eyes glaring at him in maddened fury and-

The dragon slammed its claws so hard into the ground it briefly got stuck.

Aza used the momentum of his dodge. Pivoting his weight, he heaved up his blade without further thought, laughing breathlessly when the edge of his greatsword caught the dragon right over the eye and lodged an ilm deep into its horn. It swung its head, almost wrenching the blade out of his damned hands, but Aza was quicker, pulling free and away, almost stumbling over his feet when hot white pain shot up his leg-

Pain that burned nicely, that he breathed in and let settle behind his breastbone, fingers flicking through the motion as he discharged it as burning red-black aether. The dragon screeched as Salted Earth closed around it, hungrily eating and stripping at its body.

Black spots dotted the edge of his vision. He ignored that. Push past it – _pain is power, suffering is strength_ \- and, to the left, a smooth twist of his body, momentum lifting his greatsword up – catching along the dragon’s jaw, shallow wound but enough to draw out a snarl. Jaws snapped, ilms from his arm – Aza practically threw himself on the floor as the dragon overshot its lunge, thundering over him, claws landing only ilms from his head and- oh.

Pale, soft scales above him.

He took advantage. Even though the angle was awkward and his arm was screaming in agony from the weight, Aza thrust the blade upwards into the soft underbelly above him.

A roar. Screamed so loud Aza was briefly deafened – and almost blinded when the dragon thrashed violently, wrenching his blade free and letting blood and gore spill out from the wound over him. Aza scrambled, narrowly avoiding getting stomped on as the dragon howled and screamed and then moaned, quietly, shuddering as its limbs collapsed under it and… stopped.

Aza, sprawled out in the snow, stinking of blood and seeing thin traces of steam rise over him, let out the breath he’d been holding.

Mm. Satisfying.

The silence afterwards was one he was familiar with. It was a nice thing. Silence after the death of something powerful. He took in a breath, feeling pain light up every nerve in his body, smelling viscera and having it stick in the back of his throat, blinking slowly to clear the blood clinging to his eyelashes, his skin sticky and warm.

Right.

Stiffly, Aza propped himself up on his good arm, his fingers still clenched tight over the hilt of his blade. The dragon was slumped in the snow, unmoving and quiet in… death? Aza frowned, sensing something amiss.

_‘fwmpth’._

His ear flicked when something landed heavily in the snow behind him, and he looked over his shoulder slowly, recognising a pair of Dragoons from the Holy See standing battle ready, their gazes hidden behind their helmets.

“Ser Aza,” one spoke, female, voice even, “I see you have done our job for us.”

“Well, I got carried away, I guess,” he said, the black spots creeping in a little more into the corners of his vision. Nope. He’s not going to faint. “I’d check it, though. Not sure it’s… dead dead.”

“Is there any other kind of ‘dead’?” The other Dragoon asked, male, with a more light-hearted tone. His movements were casual as he eased out of his battle stance and stepped around Aza. He kept his head slightly tilted in a way that kept Aza in his peripheral, though, as if expecting him to leap to his feet and stab him the moment his back was turned.

Well, even if he felt so inclined, Aza wasn’t being that spry any time soon. He was feeling every second of his thirty-three years as he carefully climbed to his feet, a minute tremor wobbling up his legs. Pain stabbed him in all sort of strange places, white-hot and dizzying, and the female Dragoon moved closer to him, as if unsure whether he was going to swoon or not.

Aza clenched his jaw against the wooziness, digging his blade into the churned up earth at his feet to prop him up, and watched as the male Dragoon advanced on the fallen dragon with light, cautious steps.

The male Dragoon stopped, slowly turning his head from Aza, his lance held loosely in his hand. The dragon didn’t stir, even as he skimmed the tip of his lance over its arm, and the Dragoon relaxed, “It seems-”

The dragon lunged upright faster than any of them could react. 

Snow was thrown up like a cloak from the violent movement, and Aza moved – deep, animal instinct screaming _DOWNDOWNDOWN_ , hit the compact snow and hard earth underneath, as, a deep, deafening roar, the crash of claws against unyielding frozen ground, and screams of pain, and-

Aza scrambled forwards, feeling the whistle of air as claws swiped at where he’d been only a split second before. He couldn’t get his feet under him. Something oddly tight fluttered around his heart at that realisation, pain stabbing and robbing the strength from his legs as he tried to _stand up_ , hand still gripping his blade, but uselessly, seeing a shadow loom over him and a snarl echoing around-

The dragon smashed him aside with one powerful, furious swing.

Aza… kind of blacked out for a second.

Because suddenly he was on his back, his body oddly numb and vaguely aware that his blade was… not in his hand. Oh, what? How stra-aaah… ah, there was the pain. It crawled up higher and higher as he breathed and wheezed, blinking rapidly as he distantly heard… things. Heavy footfalls. Angry, strained roars and snarls. Yelling. Spoken-yelling, even. Hmm…

Well, fuck.

Aza, not one to allow something as irrelevant as crippling agony hold him back, very slowly rolled onto his side, then his stomach, then pushed himself up onto his hands and knees. The pain was so absolute that he couldn’t even pinpoint _what_ specifically hurt, and odd colours and shapes exploded in his vision whenever he tried turning his head to the right which – hmmm, not very good, that. But, he held the pain, he breathed into it, letting it settle as dark, churning aether behind his breastbone.

He held it… he held it… then let it suffuse through him.

Living Dead was always such an unpleasant experience. His nerves sang with a pain that was both awful yet blissful, his vision clouded with a red tint that made everything appear nightmarish and unreal. The heaviness that weighed down his limbs vanished – he leapt to his feet as spry as any cat, spotting his blade only a few paces away, which he scooped up and looked up to see – the dragon and dragoons both in fierce combat.

The dragon was not as fast as before – it was dragging itself low on its belly, leaving streaks of dark red, and its lunges and swipes were sluggish and poorly aimed. The creature looked to be in just as bad shape as Aza felt, and the Dragoons were nimbly leaping and limboing beneath its attacks, spearing the soft parts of its spiky armour with ruthless precision.

Aza waited, waited until the dragon screamed its agonised fury, flinging its wings out – throwing up snow and dirt and making the dragoons retreat – lifting its head high, the soft throat exposed-

Pushing everything he had into his legs, Aza executed a perfect Plunge.

He swallowed up the distance between them as well as any dragoon, his greatsword moving in a perfect, glorious arc – momentum and gravity both guided it neatly and precisely into that exposed, soft throat. The sharp edge cut through – jarred, hit bone – and Aza twisted, heaved his body weight into that last bit of resistance, hearing the dragon gurgle, jerking and spasming in surprise, hot blood spilling and-

It collapsed just as Aza’s blade finished its journey through its throat. He very narrowly avoided getting crushed under the dragon’s heavy body.

_Now_ it was satisfying.

Taking two careful steps back, Aza planted his sword deep into the earth and leaned against it, feeling that seething, burning aether pushing through his body begin to wane. Never lasted long, Living Dead, but it served its purpose today. _He_ got the final shot in this fight. He delivered the killing blow. His kill hadn’t been stolen or tainted. It had most definitely been worth it.

His vision greyed out. The aether fizzled and the pain reached such a height that it went very nicely numb.

Or.

Oh. No, wait, he was passing o-

 

* * *

 

“I leave you two alone for a single afternoon,” Crisp muttered irritably, pushing her thick hair out of her eyes, “And look what happens – attempted dramatized deaths.”

“Hey, I was lightly grazed,” Bluebird protested, sitting on the edge of Aza’s bed as the muscle-headed idiot snoozed away. She envied him – dodging Crisp’s flat, unimpressed stares via unconsciousness. She should’ve made sure to trip over her feet and bludgeon her head on the stone floor the moment she heard Crisp was coming.

Crisp’s dead-eyed stare slowly dropped to her side, where the recently healed wound was still a vivid, angry red scar. It still ached and throbbed terribly, but Bluebird just gave a tight-lipped smile through the pain.

“Right,” Crisp sighed, clearly not caring anymore. She turned back to where she was carefully prodding Aza’s bare shoulder, her fingertips glowing with White Magic, “I hate it when he uses Living Dead. It completely destroys him from the inside out.”

Bluebird looked down at Aza’s sleeping face. He had been cleaned up after the battle – he looked like he’d been swimming in the damn thing’s guts, so it was mostly for everyone else’s sake, really – but it just exposed the mottled bruising spanning over his body. She knew he took several direct hits from that Behemoth-Dragon but holy shit, she didn’t think it hit _that_ hard. His entire ribcage was black and blue.

“Is he gonna okay?” Bluebird asked. She aimed for casual disinterest, but her voice wobbled a little anyways. She still remembered when that Dragoon lady, Bevene or whatever her name was, dragged him back – she had honestly thought him dead and very nearly had a heart attack because of it.

“Yes, he’s fine. Uh, relatively,” Crisp chortled at her slip up, “He is going to be _sore_ for the next few days, and he is most definitely _not_ going to be doing anything more strenuous than walking up the stairs for the next _week_.”

That was practically a death sentence for Aza. He was going to be so _whiny_.

“Can we… uh, keep him drugged for that time period?” Bluebird asked, “Y’know, because, he’s gonna be insufferable.”

“I’m tempted to leave him to Ser Aymeric’s tender mercies,” Crisp said carelessly, lifting her broad shoulders in a shrug, “He has so kindly lent this room for his convalescing, after all.”

Bluebird glanced around the room – a guest room in the lovely de Borel estate. She had only been here… once before, and that had been because Aza had been late for an engagement and she drew the short straw of chasing him out of Ser Aymeric’s bed. It had been pretty fun, actually, if only because Aza had squealed like a little girl when she dragged him out of bed by his tail – Ser Aymeric had been a good sport about it and actually found the entire thing hilarious.

She sighed at the fond memory. “How romantic… lettin’ Ser Aymeric play at nursemaid.”

Crisp smiled, “Well, it’s best to let him get some experience in it, since it seems like they’re actually serious.”

“Yeah, a serious pair of lovebirds. S’kinda nauseating to watch them sometimes.”

“It’s cute,” Crisp laughed, rising from the bed and brushing down her robes, “I’m just waiting for one of them to propose at this rate.”

Bluebird made a face – a proposal? That meant a wedding, which Bluebird would be _obligated_ to attend because fuck letting anyone else take best (wo)man from her, but she found them so embarrassing to watch and always had to fight down tears of happiness – which totally wrecked her reputation as a stone-cold adventurer.

“I’m gonna be best woman,” she instantly claimed.

“You may have to fight Lucia for that honour.”

Both Bluebird and Crisp jumped, looking over to the door to see Ser Aymeric standing there looking mildly amused. Despite herself, Bluebird found herself turning a little pink, while Crisp looked absolutely delighted.

“Oh? Already thinking about it, are you?” Crisp chortled, “Well, in that case, he’ll find it _very_ romantic if you take him to-”

“Oh Gods, _can we not_ ,” Bluebird hissed, waving her hands around as if to dispel this disgustingly sweet conversation before it properly got started, “The man was on his deathbed only a few hours ago. Let his corpse warm up before you start talking about that sappy stuff!”

Crisp just smiled, her eyes crinkling in the corners, “I’ll write you a note,” she told Ser Aymeric mischievously.

Ser Aymeric, who Bluebird found to be utterly shameless, dipped his head gratefully, “Thank you. And, ah, thank you for your help with Aza.”

Crisp waved him off, “Your Chirugeons did well enough on him. I just fixed up the damage from his, hmm, unique abilities.”

“Next time you see him do that Living Dead stuff,” Bluebird butted in, “Kick him in the shins. It wrecks his insides.”

“Yes, and it’s a pain to heal,” Crisp sighed, letting out a heavy puff of air, “He’ll be dead before he’s fifty at this rate, I swear.”

Ser Aymeric looked discomforted at that, and Bluebird felt something pang in her at the sight of it. She didn’t know how it must feel, to know the person you loved was under constant threat of dying well before his time. Today must’ve been awful for him.

“But today he lives for a little while longer,” Crisp continued, seemingly oblivious to the heavy mood now creeping in, “He’s like a cockroach, I swear. Well, anyways, Ser Aymeric, I leave him to your gentle care. Please stop him from doing anything stupid, even if you need to tie him down to the bed. I think he likes that sort of thing, anyway.”

“Ugh,” Bluebird wrinkled her nose, “Crisp, why.”

But Crisp just grinned, lazily, and brushed her hands together, “We will take our leave now. Please, send for us at the Forgotten Knight if he rolls out of bed and breaks a rib, or something.”

“Or if he’s being a nuisance and needs to be sat on,” Bluebird added.

Ser Aymeric bowed his head again in gratitude, though this time his smile seemed a little tired and sad, “Thank you.”

They gave their farewells, and Bluebird couldn’t help but glance over her shoulder as they left the room, seeing Ser Aymeric stand beside Aza’s bed with an expression that instantly made her look away.

Yeah, she didn’t want to know how it felt like to be in his shoes. Must be painful, to be in love with someone like Aza.

 

* * *

 

When consciousness returned to Aza, it was like getting hit in the face by a mallet. Abrupt, unpleasant, and left him feeling all sorts of dazed.

He groaned.

He faintly heard something – rustle of pages, of clothes – and then familiar fingers gently stroked his hair, thumb rubbing next to his ear that made him relax despite the ache pounding through his body. Aymeric, undoubtedly.

“Mmn…?” he asked unintelligibly, barely able to open his eyes. His body was utterly spent, he realised sluggishly, and even the usual trick of gathering up his pain, breathing through it… it only gave faint splutters of aether, enough for him to stay conscious, but not much else.

“You’re home,” Aymeric said, his voice quiet, “You gave us a bit of a fright, collapsing as you did at Falcon’s Nest.”

Falcon’s Nest…? Oh, right, that amazing Behemoth-Dragon thing that practically left him a smear on the snowy landscape. The memories were trickling in, slowly, though most of them were coloured with that reddish, frenzied haze of bloodlust and agony. He won, he remembered that, but only by the skin of his teeth. Not a flawless victory, but something satisfying at the very least.

“Sorry,” he rasped, almost wincing at his dry throat and he finally managed to open his eyes. The room was dark, lit only by a lantern on the bedside table. Aymeric was sitting next to the bed, book open and forgotten in his lap, his expression unreadable in the low-light. He didn’t look happy, though, and some of that satisfaction he felt of having a glorious battle instantly withered.

“…you have my thanks, holding the dragon at bay for as long as you did,” Aymeric said after a heavy pause, his gaze lowering briefly, “The damage may have been worse if you weren’t there.”

But the dragon was after me, Aza thought in confusion. Wasn’t it? Or had its goal been Falcon’s Nest? He couldn’t quite remember, and he was too tired to, letting his eyes slide half-closed, only barely able to see Aymeric beneath his eyelashes.

It looked as if Aymeric wanted to say more, but he didn’t. He just sighed, looking away and then back, tired smile in place.

“Go back to sleep,” he said, “I’ll be here when you wake up next.”

Aza didn’t want to sleep, though. He fought off the fatigue trying to drag him back down, “Mm, but…” he murmured, struggling to put thoughts into words, “Upset?”

Aymeric paused, briefly, “No, I’m not upset. I’m simply relieved,” he finally said.

It sounded a bit like a lie, but Aza lost the war with exhaustion, and he slipped back into sleep before he could ponder any deeper on it.

 

* * *

 

At the end of the day, Aymeric had to accept the fact that he was in love with a man who flirted with death so intimately. He was no stranger to loss, no stranger to the fact that when the day came that Aza’s luck ran out, he would have to endure the grief and pain and move on… it was still a bitter thing to accept and understand and dread, though.

But there would be no regrets, at the very least. He hoped.

**Author's Note:**

> I also want to give a big THANK YOU for everyone who has been leaving me kind comments and kudos on my fics. I'm very slow when it comes to replying to them, but they make me very happy and make my day everytime I read them. Thank you, people! You're the ones who keep me motivated to write these fics and expand more on my WoL. Thank you very very very much!
> 
> Once more I'm open to prompts and suggestions of what to write next. Please leave a kudos and comment if you liked!


End file.

 It was two hours into the hunt that Sechen realised she had a rival.

It amused her at first – the tracks imprinting the loose, thin soil of the Steppes were so deeply indented and obvious that she had disregarded them initially as that of an unfortunate outsider wandering aimlessly in the wilderness. She had been certain that she would eventually stumble over their corpse, at which point she could have used it as bait for her hunt, but, after a while…

Sechen rubbed her fingers into a fresh track – less than an hour old – smoothing out the grooves that the sole of her rival’s boot left in the dirt. They were quite small footprints, wearing the strange footwear of the foreign Spoken, but widely spaced in a way that signified they had been running. Not to flee, but to chase, for it lacked the wildness a desperate retreat would have – her rival was comfortable at long-distance running, it seemed, and doing it quite gracefully too.

She brushed the dirt off her fingers, rising smoothly to her feet. Her Khatun had tasked her with the duty of slaying the Maneater for the tribe – for Sechen was a Huntress of many lifetimes who never failed a pursuit – so she could hardly let some outsider beat her to her prize, but she would be lying if she said it didn’t fill her with excitement. It had been several generations since she last had to _race_ a hunt.

She broke into a loping run, her feet easily keeping purchase with the loose soil as she skirted the boundaries of Nhaama’s Retreat. The Maneater had made its home prowling this boundary, which would normally be tolerable – but its hunger was insatiable, and it had consumed and consumed and consumed until the local wildlife and game had fled to less fatal areas. The Dotharli still needed to eat, and raiding other tribes only offered so much in the way of sustenance when they too were struck by this dry hunting season. Difficult to burn your soul bright when your body was too weak with hunger to lift a blade, so for the good of the tribe, the beast had to be slain and devoured in turn.

The tracks of her rival mingled with that of the Maneater’s – the large, splayed prints of what seemed to be a Baras of monstrous proportions – weaving and bending, but continuously bearing south, deeper into the sands and towards Yanxia. She slowed her pace when the tracks started to become too muddled to know what belonged to who, joined by another few sets belonging to Steppe Gedan. Scavengers. Always dirtying a good trail.

Eventually, the tracks led her to a looming outcrop of rocks, its shadow an ominous, dark thing. She followed its perimeter, steps feather-light and silent as she bent her head low, breathing in deep. The scent of blood and offal hung heavy in the air and she wondered – who would it be? Her rival, slain? The Maneater, heaving its last? Or the scavenging Gedan? Oh, the anticipation was positively _thrilling_.

She turned the final corner, silent as a wraith, and let out a small tut at the scene before her.

Her rival was a Miqo’te – those queer, Baras-like creatures with tails – leaning casually on a sword larger than himself embedded deep into the sand. Around him were the remains of Gedan – literal remains. The beasts were positively butchered, their bodies crushed or split apart, leaving beautiful arcs of red and brown in the sand. It was a morbid piece of art, but one that Sechen admired for a moment, before letting her gaze land on the Miqo’te.

He was staring back at her.

“Hm,” The Miqo’te was smiling, showing off sharp looking canines, “Why, hello there, Dotharli.”

Sechen didn’t return the greeting, studying him for a moment. He seemed… familiar, somehow. Was he…?

“Khagan?” she guessed, tilting her head in open curiosity, “Khagan Aza?”

“Oh, you all still remember that?” The Miqo- no, the Khagan straightened up from his lazy slouch over his blade, his expression becoming a littler friendlier. His tail curved upwards, a perfect arc, and his ears flicked forwards. Sechen recognised it as Baras for ‘curiosity, interest, attention’.

“It will be spoken about for a long while, that Nadaam, and difficult to forget,” Sechen said, fascinated enough to be distracted from her task. She only saw the Khagan from afar last time, and the Miqo’te really were a strange, curious race. So much like animals, but keen with the intelligence of a Spoken race. She heard tales, though, of the Khagan’s tenacity and ferocity during the Nadaam, where he soundly crushed whoever dared rise against him under his heel – even those brutish, ignorant ‘Imperials’ that attempted to despoil the Nadaam. His soul must be a blazing beacon of purpose.

“Heh, true, it was very memorable,” The Khagan said, his grin reminding Sechen sharply of her Khatun. Hungry, bloodthirsty, satisfied… “It made dealing with that Magnai worth it to attend.”

Sechen scrunched her nose up at the mention _him_ , but did bring up a question she had longed to get an answer to; “Why did you not oust him from the Sun Throne, Khagan?”

“Hrrrmm…” The Khagan made a curious noise – a low, murmuring purr that pricked Sechen’s instincts, “He wasn’t worth the effort of dealing with, to be honest. I had bigger fish to fry.”

The idiom was new to her, but she caught the meaning. “Oh? And did you fry that fish?”

A shadow passed over the Khagan’s face, his yellow eyes like flint when they stared at her. His ears flicked back, his tail lowered, fur fluffed – Baras for anger, to intimidate, to threaten. Sechen made sure to keep her hands relaxed at her sides, body loose, dropping her gaze to his shoulder instead, how one would appease an aggravated predator.

“Yes,” his reply was clipped, “Are you hunting something?”

She didn’t let the subject change trip her up, “Yes, Khagan. A Baras known as the Maneater. My Khatun has tasked me to hunt it for the tribe.”

“Ahh, so that’s what I’ve been chasing,” The Khagan instantly brightened, his bad mood vanishing so abruptly it kept Sechen on her guard, “I ran into a bulked up Baras earlier, and he was rude enough to injure my Chocobo.”

Sechen rifled through her memory, and ‘Chocobo’ brought to mind a giant horsebird with legs powerful enough to kill a man with a single kick. Formidable creatures, despite their odd appearance, and the main mode of transportation for those strange Eorzeans, “And the Gedan?”

“Pests,” The Khagan said dismissively, shooting a frown at the mutilated bodies at his feet. “They pounced on me when I went to take a leak… ugh. Now I’ve lost the trail.”

Sechen hummed, considering her options. She was a huntress of several lifetimes, and hardly needed any assistance… but to see the Khagan in action, up close, and to see if Miqo’te really were as beastly as they appeared… “I will be able to pick the trail up for you, if you desire my help, Khagan.”

The Miqo’te turned back to her, his head tilted – one ear flicked forwards, the other back, hmm, confusion? “Oh? That’s a kind offer… what’s the catch?”

“I want to watch you fight,” Sechen said plainly.

The Khagan didn’t seem to know what to do with that information, scrunching his nose up in a frown.

“…really?” he prompted when the silence lingered between them awkwardly, “That’s it?”

“That’s it.”

“Well, alright,” The Khagan looked suspicious, but his expression blanked into something more neutral quickly enough, “I’ll make sure to put on a show when we catch up to the beast.”

Sechen watched as the Khagan heaved his blade out of the sand in an effortless show of strength, swinging it one-handed over his shoulder and against his back. Something clicked, audibly, and when he moved his hand, the blade stayed in place. It really was almost the same size as himself.   

“Isn’t that cumbersome?” she asked curiously. Magnai, the brute, flailed around with a block of stone he generously called an axe, like some primitive caveman, and that large blade looked equally inelegant, despite its beautiful markings and design. Why, one only had to look at the butchered Gedan to realise that.

“What, this?” The Khagan jerked a thumb over his shoulder, at the hilt of his blade, “Not really. It’s lighter than it looks.”

Sechen took his word for it, turning away to inspect the area around them. The tracks really were spoiled by the massacre that happened here, but perhaps they could use all this raw meat lying around. The wind was blowing lightly, erasing what slight signs remained, but the sun would be setting soon and with it, the winds would pick up. If the Khagan had really been chasing it for most of the day, it would be starving by now, so…

“We will set a trap,” she decided, “You’ve ruined the tracks too much with your messy kills.”

“A trap? Hrm,” The Khagan sounded displeased, but he made no verbal complaint about it, “Anywhere specific?”

This area was too enclosed – with tall, sheer rock on one side and jagged clumps of stone on the other, they would be boxed in when the beast came prowling. While the Khagan would probably delight in such handicaps, Sechen was not an arrogant fool, “There is a place further along that has a natural crater. We can lie in wait there, so long as we stay upwind.”

The Khagan hummed in acknowledgement, his gaze lowering to the slain Gedan. After a moment, he picked up the most intact one, heaving it over his shoulder. Blood spilled over his armour, running rivulets over the metal and seeping into the chinks and edges of it – he didn’t seem to care. Instead he just stared at her, expectant, the corner of his mouth curled up into a smirk.

“Are you going to grab one?” he asked lightly.

“Just one will do,” Sechen returned with equal lightness. The Khagan seemed so savage like this. There was a thin line of blood still gleaming bright red over his cheek, emphasising the light, red face paint adorning his skin. She wondered if that was intentional. “After you, Khagan.”

“Hmm, I feel like you’re mocking me, somehow,” The Khagan complained without heat, turning away from her to march towards the crater, “No respect in these lands.”

“You are Khagan, but you’re not my Khatun,” Sechen said, shadowing the Miqo’te well out of arm’s reach as her keen gaze scanned the horizon for any beasts.

“I suppose I’m not as terrifying as Sadu,” The Khagan admitted, and Sechen frowned at how casually he referred to the Khatun, “Very intense, that one, able to strike the fear of the gods into any man. I like her.”

Sechen slanted a sideways look his way – for a moment, she entertained the thought of the Khagan and her Khatun pairing together and had to fight off a full-bodied shiver. Their children would be monstrous little beasts… powerful and great, beautiful additions to the tribe.

“You _like_ her?” she finally asked.

“Not like _that_ ,” The Khagan huffed, easily catching her meaning, “Fuck no, she’d sooner stab me than sleep with me. No, I just like her style.”

Oh, no terribly strong children for the tribe, then. 

“Hm, do you prefer meeker women, Khagan?”

“No,” The Khagan sounded amused, his tail flicking from side to side with the graceful sway of his hips. He had a surprisingly curvy body for a man, with powerful, shapely legs, but she supposed that it was just how Miqo’te were – it was pleasing to look at, at least, not like the boring, angular lines of the Steppe Au Ra men, “I have a partner already. A man.”

Oh? “Is he strong?”

“Mm, in many ways, yes,” The Khagan’s voice softened, “He’s stronger than me.”

The Khagan must enjoy having someone to overpower him, Sechen thought – and damn it, he really would have been a wonderful partner for their Khatun. She shelved the fantasy, though, content to watch how he moved, sure-footed but heavy, over the shifting sands, compensating for the weight of his blade and the Steppe Gedan. He really did remind her of a Baras, with their powerful bodies and proud steps. She wondered if Miqo’te had the capacity to roar.

“I can practically feel you boring a hole into my back,” The Khagan said after a few minutes of silence, “It’s weirding me out.”

“I’m watching how you move,” Sechen admitted, seeing no point in hiding her interest, “Can you roar? Like the Baras?”

“Uh, no?” The Khagan glanced over his shoulder, but the hilt of his blade and the collar of his armour blocked most of his face from view, “Why?”

“You’re very much like the Baras,” Sechen said, “And you’re the first Miqo’te I have ever met. I was curious to know if your kind share traits.”

The Khagan made an odd noise, like a mix between a choke and a laugh, “You- really? The first Miqo’te?”

“I have never seen one,” Sechen said, “Not in all of my lives.”

“Well. Hm,” The Khagan faced forwards again, “Sorry to say, but most Miqo’te aren’t like me. I’m a tribeless, half-breed bastard that was pretty much raised by wolves, so I’m a poor example of my kind.”

His voice was light, carrying a hint of amusement, despite his declaration. Sechen tilted her head in curiosity, wondering. Everything about him did give off the impression of something feral barely tamed – a being of pure violence, carefully contained by _something_. By his man? The thought of it drew her in; a powerful warrior wrestling the savage, feral Khagan under control, giving him worth despite his otherwise worthless beginnings. But, she knew from experience that wild animals were rarely, if ever, fully tamed.  

“Can you growl?” she asked instead, “Purr? Meow?”

“You’re very insistent about this.”

“I want to know.”

The Khagan didn’t answer her. She took the hint, quieting until they reached the natural crater. It was a shallow dish, with a squat cliff overlooking it. No one knew how the crater had formed – its walls were smooth as if they were carved, slippery with a strange material different to the stone that sat beneath the desert’s sand. Otherwise it was utterly unremarkable: a hole in the ground, used mostly to trap beasts.

The Khagan peered down into its shallow bottom, his expression unreadable.

“This the crater?” he asked.

“Yes. Its smooth surface makes it difficult for beasts to escape.”

“Hmm,” the Khagan lightly kicked a loose pebble, watching it clatter its way down the crater’s side to sit at the very bottom. He stared for a little longer, expectantly, before looking away dismissively, heaving the Gedan corpse off of his shoulder and into the hole.

They watched the corpse roll and flop clumsily down to the bottom, leaving a bright, glistening red streak on the stone. The stink of offal was thick in the air.

“Well, let’s go to that cliff,” The Khagan said, “When the Maneater comes I’ll jump on its back.”

That sounded like an incredibly stupid idea and Sechen made sure her expression conveyed her feelings, “Why?”

“Hm, seems like it’d be fun.”

The Khagan’s mouth was curved into a crooked grin and he practically pranced his way to the cliff, stepping lightly on the balls of his feet. Sechen followed at a more sedate pace, keenly watching the Miqo’te stop at the base of the cliff, consider its surface, bending slightly at the knees, tail curved up, backside giving three firm wriggles before-

With a powerful leap he swiftly scaled up the rugged cliff-face, not impeded in the slightest by his weighty armour and greatsword. It took less than a minute for him to reach the top, vanishing over the lip of the cliff with a playful flick of his tail. Well then. Colour Sechen impressed.

She scaled the cliff a little slower than the Khagan, mindful of how the rock crumbled in her grip in some parts. It wouldn’t be long until it eroded to the point of collapse, probably another few years or so.

“Lovely view up here,” The Khagan told her when she reached the top. He was sprawled out on his belly, chin propped up on an up-turned palm as he gazed out across the Steppes with a distant expression. There was no awe there, despite his words, and there was something dark in his eyes – heavier than bitterness. She frowned.

“Yet you don’t seem pleased,” she noted.

“…it reminds me of something long lost, is all,” he said vaguely. His gaze dropped to the crater below, at the Gedan corpse, “Anyway, I’m going to take a nap. Wake me up when the beast comes.”

And with that, the Khagan neatly crossed his arms on the dirt and pillowed his head on them. It was a clear dismissal of the conversation.

Sechen didn’t mind. She had been getting tired of talking. She settled herself comfortably on her belly, staring out over the Steppes and able to see the sun making its journey to settle behind the Tall Mountains. Next to her, the Khagan was deceptively relaxed, but the hairs on the back of her neck rose, like what happened when she was far too close to a predator. Every instinct was aware of the Miqo’te’s powerful body within arm’s reach, that, if this wild beast only half-tamed decided to turn on her, she really wouldn’t be able to do anything about it.

It was a thrilling feeling, really. She smiled to herself and focused on the horizon, waiting for their prey.

 

* * *

 

It came at dusk.

The stars had only just started to blink down on them when the monster padded out of the shadows. Its towering, hulking form made it look like the abominable off-spring of a Baras and a Behemoth, its head bent low to the ground as it followed the thick scent of offal and congealed blood. Its fur was pitted with deep scars, muscles bulging with its powerful, yet relaxed stride – definitely an apex predator far too used to being at the top, Sechen concluded.

She didn’t move as it approached, except to lightly prod the Khagan next to her with the tip of her tail. From the corner of her eye, she saw his ear flick in acknowledgement.

The beast – Maneater – paused at the lip of the crater. It snorted, loudly, pacing along the perimeter, hesitant at scrabbling down the smooth surface even for an easy meal. Sechen held her breath, aware of the wind blowing against her face – downwind, so Maneater shouldn’t smell them, and as a Baras, its eyesight was poor long-ranged…

A low, rumbling growl – and Maneater prowled over the edge, its large, splayed paws slipping against the smooth surface as it carefully, slowly, stalked down to the Gedan corpse.

The Khagan slowly pushed himself up, and in the darkness his eyes flashed gold, reflecting the pale moonlight as he stared down at their prey. Sechen waited, her heart beating with excitement as the Khagan’s body tensed like a Baras prepared to lunge, his tail curving up slightly as Maneater drew closer, closer, almost directly beneath the crumbling edge of the cliff and-

The Khagan vaulted over the edge of the cliff with predatory grace.

Sechen was up on her knees in an instant, her bow in her hands and drawing back an arrow before she was fully aware of the motion, staring as the Khagan landed, neatly as he pleased, on the beast’s broad back. A flash of silver, quicker than a split-second, and Maneater _screamed_ in pain as the Miqo’te plunged what seemed to be a hunter’s knife right between its shoulder blades.

What an insane, crazy fool, Sechen thought with amazement, as Maneater began to thrash and rear up, trying in vain to dislodge the Miqo’te on its back. She could hear the Khagan’s wild laughter, clearly enjoying life to the fullest as he stayed on just long enough to work the beast into a right frenzy before – he nimbly leapt off, feet catching easy purchase on the smooth ground as his greatsword was drawn in the same movement, his golden eyes flashing.

Bathed in the moonlight, his armour and blade glinting, his body leaning into an aggressive stance – a perfect picture of strength and bloodlust. Sechen held off the killing shot, watching as Maneater twisted around to face the Miqo’te with a low, deafening snarl, the knife still lodged deeply in its back. It will lose, she realised abruptly. Already wounded, blinded with pain and rage – and the Khagan, confidently staring it down with a hungry, savage smile.

No, not tamed at all. This was a beast that played nice because it felt like it.

“Now, this is what you get when you hurt what’s mine~” The Khagan crooned, his voice rumbling with a low, purring noise that made every nerve in Sechen’s body shiver. Some primal instinct in her registered ‘ _threat_ ’ and she went unconsciously still, gaze fixed on the shadowy form of the Khagan, “Attacking my Chocobo was very stupid of you.”

Maneater simply growled, uncomprehending of the threat before it, and lunged forwards in a powerful burst of speed.

It didn’t save it.

Almost contemptuously, the Khagan side-stepped the lunge, his greatsword flashing upwards in a powerful swing. There was a sickeningly wet ‘ _thud_ ’, a throaty, sharp whimper and – with a loud squelching noise, Maneater collapsed to the floor, unmoving. In the dark, it was difficult to tell but… the beast was now in two pieces.

She stared blankly.

That… what?

“Wow, okay,” the Khagan sounded put out, “I thought your hide was sturdier than that. What a disappointment.”

He toed the beast’s corpse for a moment before he sheathed his blade against his back. He looked up at her, easily spotting her in the darkness. His eyes were like twin, opaque glints of light. “Dotharli, looks like I was too quick. Sorry about that.”

It took her a second to reply, trying to understand what he was talking about before she remembered.

“It’s fine,” she called out, slowly releasing the tension of her bow and holstering it, slotting the arrow back into its quiver. After a moment of hesitation, she clambered down the cliff-face, even if her shoulder blades itched at putting her back to the Khagan. But, he politely did not move as she returned to ground level, watching her with an unreadable stare as she approached – and stopped just outside of arm’s reach.

“At least it was an easy hunt, huh?” the Khagan said playfully, smiling at her. This close she could see the blood splatters across his face, across his armour – a vivid arc from where his blade had severed through Maneater and doused him in its arterial spray. It was compellingly beautiful… and terrifying in equal measure.

“That’s not always a good thing,” Sechen said, “The spoils belong to you, Khagan.”

“What? No, what would I do with a Baras corpse?” The Khagan scoffed at her, “The satisfaction of the kill is enough for me, even if it was disappointingly easy.”

It rankled at her to accept the beast, but – it would be wasteful to leave it out here, when food shortages were so rife back in her tribe. She swallowed down her distaste, but felt no gratitude for the Khagan’s ‘generosity’. “What will you do now, Khagan?”

“Hmm, good question. I suppose I’ll go bother Magnai for a bit,” The Khagan hummed thoughtfully, tapping a bloodied finger against his bottom lip. It left a stark smear against his skin. He ignored it, “See how poorly he’s faring in his love life.”

“It’s still poor,” Sechen said.

“Hah,” The Khagan chuckled, half-turning from her, “Is that so? Hm, then maybe… ah, nevermind. Well, Dotharli,” he tipped his head to her, lips curved in a pretty smile that was accentuated by his blood-soaked visage, “Thanks for letting me get my revenge on the beast there. Give my regards to Sadu!”

Sechen said nothing in response, watching as the Khagan turned away and disappeared into the darkness, whistling a jaunty tune. It was only when she could no longer hear him that she let herself relax, releasing a shuddering, tight breath. Her pulse was still fluttering, trembles of excitement moving through her – a wild, untamed creature, their Khagan.

She wouldn’t have it any other way, she thought gleefully, bending over the Baras corpse to begin carving it down for transport. The Azim Steppe needed something like that, prowling its lands – if only to keep them on their toes. Oh, if only he was a single…

Oh well. Perhaps in another life, they could cross paths again. She’ll try her luck then.

**Author's Note:**

> A prompt from Darkrose said they liked to see something set in the Azim Steppes - though I ended up running with this instead of Aza going through the Nadaam. I'm sorry! Once an idea latches on me it won't let go until I write it out. I may do the Nadaam idea next, once I finish the update to Front Flip and Digging A Hole Called Marriage (I have so many fics to write! Too many ideas oTL). 
> 
> Please comment/kudos if you enjoyed!


End file.

It was just past midnight when Aza – muddy, wet and heavily bruised – limped his way into the Ala Mhigan Quarter’s stables. 

“Hanging in there, Rations?” he asked the dark blue Chocobo limping along beside him, smiling when he got a happy little wark in reply, “Yeah, yeah, you’re a trooper. Well, we’re almost at your stall now.” 

Indeed, at the very end – the best stall, the young stable boy had assured him when they claimed it – Rations’s stall was swept and ready with a fresh bed of straw. Aza flipped the lock up and pushed the stall door wide – only to pause, giving his bedraggled Chocobo a once over. 

Thick clumps of mud clung to her underside and all down her legs. He had hoped that the walk back would have dried it off enough for him at least brush the worst of the mud off, but it still had that slimy, chilly consistency from when Rations had first gotten stuck in that Gods forsaken swamp. 

“First things first though,” he muttered to himself, leading Rations into the stall and carefully easing the bridle off her beak, “Stay standing for me, lovely, I need to get all that crap off you.” 

Rations warbled and fluffed up – before dutifully holding very still as Aza methodically began stripping off her armour, clearly favouring one leg. Aza kept a close eye on it, hanging the filthy armour over the side of the stall to be dealt with at a later date. He was certain Rations hadn’t seriously damaged that leg and the potion had done well to seal up the nasty gash but… well, better safe than sorry.

“I’ll get someone to look at that tomorrow morning,” he said, shuffling to the corner of the stall to where a small grooming box was stored, “So don’t peck at it or anything.”

“Wark!”

“I mean it,” Aza said firmly, straightening up with a thick towel one hand and a brush in the other, “I know what you’re like. You peck at it and I’ll keep you stabled for a week.”

“Wark…” Rations openly sulked. 

“That look won’t work on me,” he said, unable to stop an amused smile as he walked back over, “Now hold still.” 

It took very little time, really, to rub Rations down and clear her feathers of any lingering, foul smelling mud. By the time he was done he could feel his own exhaustion tugging at his limbs, very aware of the weight of his armour and his own aches and pains left unattended. He could deal with that later though.

“Alr-r… right…” Aza said around a yawn, “Okay, you’re done, lovely.”

“Wrrrrk…” Rations gave herself a little shake, her feathers all ruffled and fluffed out from her vigorous rub down, and lightly headbutted Aza’s shoulder in open affection.

“Yeah, feels better now, doesn’t it?” Aza hummed, tossing the filthy towel over the equally dirty armour on the stall gate and deciding that that was future-Aza’s problem to deal with, “Ready to sleep?”

“Kweh.”

Aza tidied up what little mess he made as Rations carefully curled up in her soft bed of straw and paused by the stall’s gate. His greatblade was propped in the very corner, and Aza eyed it tiredly. The mere thought of hefting that weight onto his back and trudging his way to the inn just sapped his motivation to nothing. The baths wouldn’t be open either until the morning, and it was pretty cold outside of the stables, especially since his underclothes were very damp right now.

Plus the inn was all the way on the other side of the quarter and…

“Fuck it,” he muttered, pushing away from the gate and over to Rations. His Chocobo didn’t so much as stir when he flopped down on the straw and leaned against her muscular bulk. It was mildly chilly, but this wasn’t the first time he slept in the stables covered in muck and soaked to the bone. He was as robust as a Behemoth and hadn’t been ill since he was a child. He’d be fine.

And with that last bit of tempting fate, Aza let his eyes slide shut, immediately drifting into an exhausted sleep-

 

* * *

 

-and jerked awake from something jabbing him hard in the ribs.

“Hey, mister,” a young, high voice whispered to him, accompanied with another hard jab, “Are you dead?”

“Ugh…” Aza groaned, blindly grabbing at whatever was poking him right in his _sore_ spot. It was solid and thin beneath his palm, and he felt the barest hint of resistance when the person at the end tugged it experimentally. With supreme effort, he opened his eyes to see a blurry orange-brown blob in front of him. Uh…?

“Oh, you’re not dead,” the young voice – the blob – said, sounding oddly disappointed, “Hey, can you let go of my broom?”

“You gonna poke me again?” Aza rasped, almost flinching at the needle-like burn flaring down his dry throat. Gods, he sounded awful, “Cuz m’not in mood for that.”

“I won’t poke you, mister,” the blob promised.

Aza let go, and he wasn’t prodded again. He blinked several times, his gaze slowly focusing to reveal that the blob was actually a very small Miqo’te child. A Seeker boy, with bright orange hair and equally bright eyes. He was staring a him in open fascination.

“Are you a bum?” the kid asked, “The stablemaster says I’ve gotta chase rogues and bums and vag- vagabonds away.”

“M’not a bum,” Aza said, reluctantly sitting up from his comfortable slouch against Rations’s bulk, grunting when a few aches from last night flared back to life with vengeance. His Chocobo was still flat out, the lucky thing. “Just takin’ a nap with my Chocobo.”

“Hmmm, sounds like something a bum’d say,” the kid said blithely, “You’re all smelly and dirty and sound weird.”

Well, Aza couldn’t argue those points. He looked down at himself, seeing that the swamp from last night had dried into thick, blackish clumps and smears over his armour, and the unsavoury mix of sweat, oil and brackish water made him stink worse than the backend of a Work-Chocobo.

“I was, uh, killing monsters last night,” Aza said scratchily, lifting a hand to see if his braid had held out during the night and tutting when he found it half-undone, “Helping patrols out.”

“Killin’ monsters?” The kid’s eyes widened in awe, “Oh, are you an _adventurer_? I heard they go into haunted ruins and find lots of treasure and stuff.”

“Something like that,” Aza answered, tugging his braid loose and fluffing his hair out, “Some people compare us to sellswords or mercenaries, though. Doing jobs no one else wants to do.”

The kid stared at him thoughtfully, not saying anymore as Aza tiredly redid his braid. It was sloppy work, but it would keep his hair out of the way until he crawled his way to the baths. Judging by the muted noise of crowds drifting from the stables’ open windows, and the bright, cheerful sunlight streaming through, it was late in the morning. Great, he overslept. He promised to meet the Flame Captain by dawn to tell him his job was done. Best do that before washing up.

“If adventurers find treasures and stuff,” the kid finally said, “Why do you look like a bum?”

“The baths were shut when I got in,” Aza patiently replied, slowly getting to his feet. His knees audibly clicked, his back and neck pulling uncomfortably – ugh, he was getting old. Ten years ago he could’ve leapt to his feet and be ready to run a marathon after a rough night in the stables, “Also, I’m lazy.”

“Kinda dumb too,” the kid said with a cheeky grin, “It was pretty cold last night, mister.”

“Tell me about it,” Aza muttered, rubbing the back of his neck, glancing down at the kid. Despite being told by the stablemaster to chase off unsavoury types, the kid didn’t seem all that eager to send him on his way, “What’s your name?”

“M’rha,” the kid chirped, puffing his chest out in obvious pride, “My sister’s part of the Resistance!”

“Oh…?” There weren’t many Miqo’te in the Resistance, from what he’d seen. M’naago’s tribe seemed more content to be a separate entity from them whilst still assisting them. Not that Aza really cared about the politics of Ala Mhigo right now. It gave him a headache to think about, “Is this your way of helping out?”

“Mmhm!” M’rha said, “I love Chocobos, so my sis told me to help the stablemaster out! I’m learning lots!”

“That’s amazing,” Aza said sincerely, “Are you doing your rounds this morning, then?”

“Yup! You get some people who sneak in here,” M’rha brandished his broom about, “Which is why I have this! I make sure bums don’t roll around in the stables and upset the birds!”

Which, technically speaking, Aza sort of was at the moment, though the kid didn’t look like he was going to start whacking at his shins any time soon. Hopefully…

“I better get out of your way then,” Aza said, casting a quick eye over the stall to see what he needed to grab. His Greatsword, and… ah, the saddlebags can stay with Rations. She’d defend the contents with her life, “By the way, Rations here has an injury on her leg. Could you ask the Veterinarian to take a look at her when they’re able?”

“Sure thing, mister!” M’rha said eagerly, giving him a very sloppy Flame salute. It was enough to make Aza blink, “What’s your name, though? The Vet don’t do treatment for free.”

“Oh, uh, just say Aza. He’ll know who I am,” Aza said quickly, hoping the kid wouldn’t recognise it, “Anyway, best be off. Have a good day, M’rha.”

“You too, mister!” M’rha said cheerily, before scampering off. No doubt to see if any other stalls were hiding other bedraggled, filthy adventurers.

Aza heaved a relieved sigh – only to jump when something pecked him in the calf. He twisted round, making a face at Rations giving him a deeply judgemental look from her curled up position on the floor.

“Don’t look at me like that,” Aza grumbled, “The inn was too far.”

“Kweh.”

“I’m _fine_. Just… got a dry throat, is all,” he huffed, pausing to clear it with a sharp cough. It… actually hurt, ow.

“I’ll grab something to drink in a bit,” he added reluctantly, moving away to grab his Greatsword. His muscles screamed in protest as he hefted its weight onehanded, a sharp pain throbbing just to the left of his breastbone as he slotted the weapon neatly into the magnetic locks on his back. Eh, he’ll worry about that later, “Now rest up. The Vet’s going to take a look at you in a bit, so behave for him.”

“Wrrrrk,” Rations exhaled noisily, turning her head to tuck it under her wing.

“Love you too,” Aza muttered, rolling his eyes at his Chocobo’s attitude. He exited the stall and eyed the mud splattered barding and saddle tossed over the edge of it. Eh… he’ll deal with that later today. Flame Captain first, then bath, then a late breakfast. Mm, sounded good.

Spirits lifting at the prospect of food, Aza walked out of the stables. He squinted against the bright morning sun, his ears flicking back as he eased into the steady flow of foot traffic in the wide, Ala Mhigan street. He let the sounds of civilisation wash over him, his feet mindlessly taking him to where the Eorzean Alliance had set up their temporary headquarters within the Ala Mhigan Quarter.

It was quite close to the front gates, set up in some old warehouses that used to hold a Garlean armoury and barracks. All the weapons and ammunition had been confiscated and hauled off after being divvied up between the City States, and now the buildings acted as both the barracks, the headquarters and the logistical centre of the Eorzean Alliance. From what Aza understood, they didn’t want to tread on too many Ala Mhigan toes by having their forces take up more room than necessary – while they were indeed grateful for being liberated, there were some radical elements who viewed the Grand Companies’ presence as another occupying force. So, it was best to have them sequestered in their own little corner whilst they handled keeping security and order in the wake of Ala Mhigo’s liberation.

There was an inn next to the warehouse though that was practically rolling in business. Its rooms upstairs were mostly used by the higher ranks of the Alliance, including Aymeric, and the tavern on its lowest floor had a constant flow of soldiers throwing their coin into drinks. Aza was fairly certain that the grizzled old man in charge of that tavern was laughing his way into wealth.

By the time he reached this bustling hive of Alliance activity, it was edging close to what he suspected as noon. He weaved his way through the throng of uniformed men and women, seeing a few Ala Mhigan Resistance soldiers mingling amongst them, making a beeline for the rudimentary Levequest booth. It was essentially where all the shit jobs none of the soldiers had time or motivation for were put up for adventurers to snag up – and in the wake of Ala Mhigo’s liberation, there was a massive influx of them. Ala Mhigo and Doma were now open for exploring, with the expulsion of Garlean forces, after all.

“Lieutenant Lynel!” The Flame Captain hailed as he approached, “I was wondering what happened to you! Got trapped in a swamp, eh?”

Aza huffed, drawing to a halt in front of the booth – really just a sturdy plank of wood thrown over two large crates – and levelled an unimpressed look at the captain before him. The Flame Captain was a tall, swarthy Roe with a dark grey complexion and a face that was naturally inclined to grin. He was a friendly chap, but his enthusiasm this morning was almost offensive to Aza’s fatigued state. 

“Yeah,” Aza grunted, “I’ll be digging mud out of places I didn’t know existed for days.”

The Flame Captain laughed heartily, “And your fur! I’ve known enough Miqo’te to know that that is always a fun tasking.” 

Aza made a face. He had been deliberately trying not to think about that. He flicked his tail, looking over his shoulder to see that the sandy brown fur was matted and clumped with that foul swamp mud. The one time he wished he didn’t inherit his mother’s long, thick fur…

“I might have to… shave the fur down,” Aza admitted, “Ugh." 

“Tell you what,” The Flame Captain said, “I’ll slip in a bit extra for that. Maybe 10%- ah, pardon me. Which job was it you did again?” 

“Oh,” Aza turned his attention away from the poor state of his tail, “It was…” 

He spent the next ten minutes hashing out the details of his jobs – it was a simple monster extermination, so the wrangling of pay was actually quite straight forward. He even secured a few more jobs to be officially picked up later in the afternoon. ‘Some from Ishgard,’ the Flame Captain had said with a very knowing look.

“Well, it’s always a pleasure, Lieutenant Lynel,” The Flame Captain said once Aza had been paid and spoken himself slightly hoarse, “Enjoy your bath and meal. I’ll see you later today.”

“Yeah, see you,” Aza said, wandering away from the booth. His stomach gave a quiet gurgle and he was tempted to just grab food first. He wouldn’t be allowed in the tavern due to how filthy he was, but this area was brimming with street stalls selling food to hungry or on duty soldiers, and they definitely weren’t picky about the state of your clothes so long as you paid.

“Decisions…” Aza rasped to himself, wrinkling his nose and rubbing his throat.

“By the Twelve,” a familiar voice drawled, “What happened to you?”

Aza’s ear flicked towards the voice before he turned, his frown instantly brightening into a smile as he recognised Thancred morphing out of the flow of Alliance soldiers. “Thancred? What’re you doing here?”

“Paying a brief visit,” he said easily, looking Aza up and down very carefully, “Are you alright? You sound very… rough.”

“Been better,” Aza admitted, “Got stuck in a swamp last night doing monster hunting.”

“And apparently drank the swamp too, with that horrible voice,” Thancred said, his smile not quite covering up the concern in his visible eye. “Come on, off to the baths with you. If we peel off that inch-thick layer of mud, we might be able to see if you’re still a Miqo’te underneath.”

“Hah,” Aza said flatly, giving in to Thancred’s not so subtle urging. Looked like he was bathing before eating, sorry stomach. “I’m not _that_ bad.” 

Thancred just looked at him, slowly reaching out and flicking off an inch-thick clump of mud off his cheek. He didn’t break eye contact. “Really?” 

“…shut up.”

 

* * *

 

Alisaie grimaced as she rolled her shoulder, feeling the tight pull of recently healed muscle and skin. The injury inflicted wasn’t fatal, but Fordola’s blade had cut deep enough in such an awkwardly delicate joint that even now, a few weeks after the injury, it was still giving her trouble. ‘Light exercise’ the chirugeon said sternly, and it chafed at her. She was sick and tired of being the one who got injured and needed to be protected. How was she supposed to stand equal to Aza if she kept getting knocked flat on her back each time?

“Oh dear, now that’s a seriously grumpy face.”

Alisaie startled, looking up from where she’d been scowling at the bathhouse sign to see – Thancred and… ah, speak of the Devil.

“Thancred, Aza,” Alisaie greeted, stuffing her frustrations down as she took in Aza’s curiously filthy state. He looked like he’d just finished crawling out of his own grave, and his exhausted, dead-eyed stare only emphasised his sorry state, “What happened to you?”

“S-Swaaaa… amp,” Aza said around a sudden yawn, hiding his mouth behind his hand, “Urgh… poor life choices. Things like that.”

“Aza was telling me how he fell asleep in the stables while soaked to the bone,” Thancred said mildly, “Because he’s an idiot.”

“Why are you so mean to me, Thancred.”

“You _are_ an idiot,” Alisaie said, unable to suppress a smile when Aza turned his pouty look onto her, “It was cold last night, you’re lucky you didn’t get hypothermia.”

“I,” Aza said in a very raspy voice, “am as healthy as a Behemoth. I haven’t been ill in _decades_.”

Alisaie and Thancred both simply looked at him, not saying a word.

“Okay, maybe not decades,” Aza admitted after an awkward pause, “But still, my immune system is rock solid.”

Thancred lifted his hands up in an exasperated sigh, shaking his head as if Aza was a particularly troublesome child, “That merely means you’re long overdue. You have been pushing yourself quite hard, recently. Exhaustion is just as likely to make you ill as is frolicking in filthy swamps.”

“Okay, one, I didn’t frolic,” Aza huffed, pointing rudely at his face, “And secondly, it doesn’t work like that.”

“No?” Thancred said innocently.

“No,” Aza scowled, “Not for me, at least. I’m indomitable, even to viruses and bacteria.” 

Thancred glanced at Alisaie with an expression of deep exasperation. She rolled her eyes back, amused despite Aza’s comical stubbornness. She greatly admired him for his tenacity and compassion, but she could admit he was so ridiculous about the oddest of things.

“It doesn’t work like that,” Alisaie repeated, settling a hand on her hip, “If a virus or bacteria wants to infect you, it will.”

“With an attitude like that, it will,” Aza muttered sotto voce.

“I don’t think ‘mind over matter’, er, matters here,” Thancred added.

“Hmmm…” Aza slid a heavy-lidded stare at him, like he was sizing him up for a coffin, “Sounds fake, but okay.”

Alisaie just sighed, backing off from this obviously futile battle, “Were you going to the baths?” she prompted, slowly becoming aware of the… smell, wafting from him. It caught unpleasantly in the back of her throat.

“Yeah,” Aza rasped, “Going to drown myself in it.”

“I can help hold your head down, if you want,” Thancred offered dryly.

“Going to drown Thancred in it,” Aza instantly corrected.

“Hey.”

“I’ll leave you two to it,” Alisaie said, washing her hands clean of _this_ particular disaster in the making. She heard how Aza got banned from the Kugane bath house, after all, “For whoever survives, the other Scions are having a late lunch at the Stalwart Griffin in two hours.”

“Oh,” Aza visibly perked at the mention of food, “I’ll definitely be there!”

“ _Hey_ ,” Thancred repeated, looking worried about his potentially shrinking lifespan. 

Alisaie looked at him, “I’ll get nice flowers for your funeral.” 

_“Hey!”_  

“Now, now…” Aza purred dangerously, slinging a friendly yet threatening arm around Thancred’s shoulders, “It’s best to just accept your fate, sometimes.” 

Alisaie made her swift exit then, shaking her head with a small smile when the beginnings of a playful squabble sounded behind her. Seeing Aza capable of getting so ruffled and messy made her feel a little better. It seemed he wasn’t so impossible to catch up to, after all.

 

* * *

 

There was no greater feeling than a hot, warm shower after a long day. 

Well, ‘long day’ in that last night and this morning was blurring into one horribly long, exhausting ordeal. Aza was still starving, but standing under the hot spray of water, scrubbing the itchy filth from his skin, more than made up for it. He was discovering a lot of ‘mud patches’ were actually bruises though, which was worrying. 

He gingerly prodded a particularly ugly purple bruise spanning over his left side, wincing at the needle-sharp pain that flared from the pressure. Those ribs were… potentially cracked, just a little. 

Shelving that as a problem to deal with later, maybe, Aza finished up scrubbing his hands through his wet hair, making sure it was free of any lingering mud or dried blood, before turning the shower off. It was at this point where he usually moved onwards to the communal baths – it was a good place to socialise, since it was the communal baths that catered mostly to Eorzean soldiers and visiting adventurers alike, but Aza was 90% certain that the moment he sank into that warm water he’d conk out and go into a coma or something.

Nope, sleep would have to wait for now. He needed to do some things before lunch with the Scions and… maybe squeeze in a thirty-minute powernap, grab an X-Potion to dull those aches and pains twinging to the surface and see the Flame Captain about those jobs he promised to take up. No rest for the righteous, ha. 

“Are you still dawdling in there?” Thancred’s voice called from beyond the shower door. They were all separated into stalls for privacy’s sake, but the showers were still linked by one large dressing room. Aza had hoped Thancred had moved onto the baths already so he could slip out.  

“Finished,” he half-yawned, struggling to keep his eyes open as he grabbed his towel and wrapped it around his hips, shoving the door open blindly, “M’too tired t-t-toooo…” _Yaaaaaawn_ , “Mmn, bathe.”

Thancred was still dressed and was looking at him with a very keen, scrutinising stare. Aza fought the impulsive urge to cover his chest.

“Did you see a Chirugeon at all when you came back?” Thancred finally asked, when the silence began to get a little awkward.

“No,” Aza admitted, suddenly very aware and guilty of the splotchy mess of black and blue all over his body, “It’s fine. I’ll grab a potion before lunch and sleep it off after.”

“Hmm,” Thancred said, his expression worryingly unreadable, “Well, in any case, I grabbed some spare, clean clothes for you whilst you were showering.”

He gestured to one of the stone hewn benches running along the far wall of the dressing room, where Thancred had thoughtfully nabbed one of Aza’s lighter sets of armour. It was the Ala Mhigan style cured leather armour – and left last in ‘his’ room that was mostly occupied by his adventurer friends. Aza hadn’t slept in there since he was first given the damn thing.

“Oh, right,” Aza said blankly, “I forgot about clean clothes.”

Thancred made a low, tutting noise, giving him another once over, but kept whatever opinion he was forming to himself, “Would have been pointless to clean up only to crawl back into… those.”

Both of them glanced at the messy pile of muddy armour dumped on the floor next to the shower stall. Yeah, now that Aza had washed up, he was painfully aware of the stink. Cleaning that armour was going to be a _pain_ , ugh.

“Mmn, yeah. Thanks, Th-Tha-aaaan…cred…” Aza failed to muffle another yawn, blinking rapidly as the itchiness of sleep started to creep in. Okay, maybe he should take his thirty-minute power nap now. The stone bench was looking mighty comfy…  

“You’re right, you’re too tired to bathe,” Thancred said, a hint of a smile creeping on his face, “The Kojin’s Blessing would mean you wouldn’t drown but… well, no point in causing a panic from some poor soul discovering you snoozing at the bottom of the bath.”

The thought was amusing, but Aza agreed. No point causing that type of trouble. “Mmhmm.”

“Come on,” Thancred coaxed, “Let’s get you dressed and into bed.”

Aza mumbled something agreeable to that, and went to do just that. It took longer than usual – on the heels of fatigue came clumsiness, and really, was this armour really that complicated to put on? The straps seemed more unyielding and the buckles more fidgety – but eventually, Aza managed to dress himself without falling asleep halfway through (though, the accidentally jabbing of his bruises and potentially cracked ribs jolted him out of any drowsiness he may’ve drifted into).

Tiredly tying his hair back into its braid, Aza cast an eye for his blade – and frowned when he saw Thancred had already hefted it over his shoulder. It was an awkward hold, one that Thancred was obviously uncomfortable in bearing, but his firm expression said he wasn’t going to give it up.

“Let’s give those bruised ribs of yours a rest, mm?” Thancred said, tilted his head towards the exit, “I can carry it to next door fine.”

“My ribs aren’t going to snap under the pressure of carrying that to the inn,” Aza grumbled, but gave in. He lacked the energy to properly contest it – and it wasn’t as if he was unarmed. He always made sure his armour had several knives hidden away in them somewhere, just in case. “But fine, do as you will.”

Looking back, Aza didn’t really remember the walk to the inn. Thancred began talking about what Hilda had been up to back in Ishgard, and Aza let the words of his friend wash over him like a comforting wave, his eyes halfway shut and relying on the minute shifts of aether to tell him when he was about to bump into someone or something. In what felt like no time at all, Thancred had walked him to his inn room and…

Hmm… honestly, he must’ve fallen asleep on his feet, because he didn’t remember anything after that.

 

* * *

 

Aza stirred awake at the noise of low murmurs.

“Well I say Garuda would win, just because her batshit insanity gives her extra vicious points.”

“Rock and fire trumps wind, though. I say Titan. He has the elemental advantage against _both_ Ifrit and Garuda.”

“I can’t believe you’re really arguing about this… _obviously_ Ifrit would be the winner.”

“ _Ifrit_? That glorified salamander?”

“Do you remember the last time we fought him? _Searing Heat_ , anyone?”

"Uuuuugh, Gods, no, I blocked that from memory…”

Aza basked in the voices that he slowly recognised as those of his party, feeling his body wake up as the twinges and aches began to make themselves known once more with vengeance. His muscles were tense and sore, and each inhale made something sharp stab just level with his diaphragm. Painful, but tolerable. Aza shifted to his good side, grunting when the movement made _everything_ flare up with _pain_.

The voices instantly quietened.

“…Aza?” Crisp’s voice suddenly asked, and he then felt a warm hand press against his forehead. He opened his eyes blearily, everything blurry and out of focus.

“Mngh?” he asked unintelligibly, closing his eyes again when the light from the room somehow physical stabbed into his brain. Gods… worse than any hangover right now…

“Huh, guess he’s alive,” she said idly, removing her hand and brushing her fingers over his hair. A cooling tingle of White Magic tinged the aether, taking the edge off the pain, “If you’re feeling up for food, we’ve got some stuff here.”

“We ate most of it ourselves,” Bluebird’s voice piped up, not sounding apologetic in the slightest, “It looked really nice and you were just snoozing away, sooo~”

“I don’t think he should eat anything solid right now,” Papaya’s voice cut in, “Has his fever gone down yet?”

“Not yet,” Crisp said, while Aza tried to muddle through what was just said. Fever? Huh? “Hey, Bluebird, make yourself useful and get food from downstairs. Something hearty, I don’t care what.”

“Sh’ln’t I’ick f’d…?” Aza rasped, almost coughing from the sandpaper quality his throat had become.

“I have no idea what you just said,” Crisp said cheerfully, “But I’m going to say no to whatever it was.”

There was the sound of footsteps and a door opening. The muffled noise of chatter and laughing filtered through before abruptly cutting off. Aza forced himself to open his eyes again, this time into slits, and saw the blurry figure of Crisp perched on the edge of his bed, book in one hand. She was dressed in her ‘lounge clothes’, as she called them, which was just a shirt and shorts. 

“Gods,” Crisp said, looking down at him with smile, “You look like absolute shit.”

“F’ck off,” Aza coughed, tucking his head against his blanket to muffle the noise. The more he was shifting to wakefulness, the more shit he felt. Oh, Gods, no, it couldn’t be. He couldn’t be… _ill_.

"Hmm,” Papaya sounded amused, “Well, he’s more coherent this time, at least.”

“Huh?” Aza lifted his head, trying to spot Papaya. But the damn Lalafell was somewhere out of sight in the low-lit room, and Aza quickly gave up. “C’hrent?”

“Mmhm,” Crisp’s attention had returned mostly to her book, though she kept one hand on Aza’s hair, occasionally sending a gentle brush of White Magic over him, “You’ve been out of it for, oh… half a day? It’s past midnight now.”

Aza processed this.

“…how.”

“Well, when Thancred dumped your exhausted body in this bed,” Crisp said with mocking patience, “It just gave up. A few hours in and a fever developed, and then we had to deal with you having messed up fever dreams.”

“You have very disturbing dreams,” Papaya’s voice confirmed, “Like, ‘you need help’ level of disturbing.”

Aza had no recollection of this whatsoever, “Wha… but… really?”

“Really,” Crisp confirmed, “You started crying about something at one point. Don’t worry though, I won’t tell anyone. I’m not _that_ cruel.”

“Bluebird on the other hand…” Papaya said pointedly.

“Oh, no, she knows the boundaries,” Crisp said firmly, “She won’t talk.”

Foggily, Aza was mildly worried as to what the hell he had been crying about to make _Crisp_ put her foot down. Normally she blurted anything embarrassing Aza had done to any willing listener in a demented attempt to keep him humble – but they had been friends for a long while now, and he knew that beneath her lackadaisical attitude she really did care about him in her own weird way. His whole party did, even if they drove him insane.

“Anyways,” Crisp continued, poking him in the forehead, “Think you can sit up? Unless you want to drown in your soup lying down like that.”

“Urgh,” Aza groaned at the prospect of moving, but… his stomach gave a painful, near nauseating clench at the thought of food. If what Crisp said was true, he hadn’t eaten in well over a _day_. He needed to eat, even if the mere thought of moving made him want to crawl out of his own skin.

“There, there,” Crisp cooed unsympathetically, making no move to help him as he slowly and laboriously sat up, “It’ll be worth it once you get a bellyful of food and some water in you.”

Pointedly, she reached out and nudged a flask of water sitting on his bedside table. He eyed it warily.

“I’ve tested it, it’s safe,” Crisp said, “Papaya drank some.”

“Completely fine,” Papaya said, now visible from Aza’s new vantage point. He was sprawled on the floor on his stomach, building a pyramid out of their Triple Triad cards. He looked like he had just rolled out of bed, night clothes and all, “Just normal water.”

Aza took the water.

It was slightly warm, but still refreshing as it soothed his raw throat and helped to ease the pounding behind his eyes somewhat. Before he knew it, he had chugged almost half the flask in one go, stopping only when his stomach churned in protest. Gods, he didn’t realise how thirsty he was either.

“Dehydrated, hungry, ill and recovering from fractured bones…” Crisp said idly, “You really don’t do things by halves, do you?”

“Go big or go home,” Aza rasped, feeling a little more alert now.

“Heh,” Crisp chortled to herself, looking back down at the book in her lap, “True enough.”

Aza leant back against the pillows propping him up against the headboard, closing his eyes and trying not to completely drift off. Despite the aches and pains, he felt comfortable in his friends’ presence, and he made a mental note to get them something nice later. It had been a while since he arranged a nice, exciting adventure for them all… maybe they could…

“I’m baaack~” Bluebird called after kicking the door open and nearly startling Aza out of his skin. She marched in with a tray laden with food, and she was the only one out of all four of them dressed in armour with her daggers hanging at her belt, “Choo, choo, here comes the Bluebird Express with a food delivery for our sickly Warrior of Light!”

Crisp snapped her book shut and rose to her feet, freeing up space on the bed, “That’s way too much food.”

“Well, _I_ was still hungry,” Bluebird sniffed, “So I got extra. Here you go, Aza.”

The Au Ra lowered the tray carefully on his lap. There was a bowl of hearty stew with a plate of buttered bread, as well as a few small plates with cold meats and cheese. Bluebird instantly snatched up those small plates, “These ones are mine… and the stew and bread are yours. If you can’t finish it, I’ll eat it.”

“Please finish it,” Crisp said dryly, “You need the energy.”

Aza ducked his head and hid a smile as Bluebird complained loudly but insincerely as she sat down on the bed next to him. Crisp, after putting down her book, sat on his other side, reaching over his tray to snag a piece of cheese from Bluebird’s plate.

“Oi, Papaya,” Bluebird catcalled, tossing a bread crumb at the Lalafell, “Get your popoto butt up here with them cards. We’re gonna play!”

Papaya sighed as if put upon, but duly gathered up his cards and padded over to the bed. He sat near Aza’s knees and started shuffling the deck between his hands with a card shark’s experience, “With what rules?”

“You got duplicates in there?”

“Lots,” Papaya scoffed, “Since _someone-_ ” he stared at Crisp who merely looked innocent, “-keeps picking up the common one-star cards.”

“Hey, they go to waste otherwise,” Crisp sniff, “And it means we can play Triad Snap.”

Aza groaned, “Ugh, not Triad Snap.”

“Awww, is the wittle kitty scared of looooosing~?” Bluebird cooed mockingly, “Okay, we’ll play dull old vanilla Triple Triad for the invalid here.”

Aza slanted a glare at her, “I’ll fucking destroy you.”

“Here we go…” Papaya muttered under his breath.

“Children,” Crisp drawled, “Settle down. Aza, eat your damn stew. Bluebird, stop talking.”

Aza glared for a few seconds longer at Bluebird’s smug face before sullenly returning to his meal. Papaya started dealing out the cards for Triad Snap.

“Alright then,” Crisp hummed, “Let’s see how long it takes for this to devolve into bloodshed.”

 

* * *

 

The game actually ended up remaining civil up until Thancred came knocking.

“Excuse me- oh, sorry, am I interrupting?”

Aza opened his eyes, realising he had dozed off mid-game at some point. He blinked a few times at Thancred’s fuzzy silhouette in the doorway, and glanced around to see that at some point his lap had been turned into a table for his party’s game of Triple Triad while Papaya used his shin as a pillow, openly snoozing away.

“Nah,” Bluebird said, not looking away from Aza’s lap, chewing her bottom lip in thought, “Just wasting time while Aza snoozes like an old man.”

“Mm…” Aza let the insult slide, refocusing back on Thancred, “What’s up?”

“Just thought I’d see if you still lived,” Thancred said carelessly, leaning against the doorway, “Also Ser Aymeric has returned from Ishgard and expressed _intense_ concern when I told him you were bedridden with illness.”

Of course.

“Thancred,” Aza groaned, “Why’re you stirring drama like that?”

“I merely spoke the truth,” Thancred said lightly, “You were in a very bad way not so long ago. It’s good to see you recovered.”

“Not recovered,” Crisp cut in, slapping a card down on Aza’s lap, “Just lucid this time.”

“I feel loads better,” Aza instantly protested. Yes, his voice was still croaky and rough, but he didn’t feel like he’d just been trampled by a Behemoth and left for dead in a ditch. Just… mildly beaten up, like a post-Zenos thrashing.

“You don’t look it,” Thancred said, “Even from the doorway you look as if you have one foot in the grave.”

“I’ll put _you_ in a grave,” Aza huffed – and immediately went into a coughing fit.

“Ooooh~ tremble in fear!” Bluebird said mockingly, “That was so lame.”

“So,” Thancred said casually, entirely unmoved by Aza’s dramatically loud death throes, “I suppose I should tell Ser Aymeric that you are unfit for visi-”

“ _N-NooOOoOooOOo_!” Aza screeched past his coughing fit, sounding like some demented voidsent from Hell in the process, “I-I’m – _cough!_ – f-f-finnn - _coughcough!_ \- fine! Fine! I’m - _cough!_ \- fine!”

“Oh Gods,” Papaya groaned groggily from the vicinity of his feet, “That noise is going to haunt my dreams.”

“Mister Waters, I’ll have to ask you to stop overexciting my patient,” Crisp said blandly, “Aza has a very delicate constitution, you know.”

“F-Fu- _hrrk_ …” Aza’s insult was cut off by an incoherent wheeze, and with a sigh Bluebird stopped staring at her cards long enough to thump him on the back. It… just made the situation worse, really.

“Also, he has the plague,” Crisp continued blithely, “Will probably be dead by sunrise.”

“I _w-wish_ …” Aza groaned, weakly shoving Bluebird’s thumping arm away, “Gods, Thancred, please, save me.”

Thancred smiled and pushed off the door frame, “I’ll tell Ser Aymeric to leave you to your rest. Sleep well with your friends, Aza.”

“No,” Aza begged, staring in open dismay as his _traitorous friend_ grabbed the door handle, preparing to depart, “No, don’t you dare, Thancred!”

“Good night,” The fucking _asshole_ said cheerily, and promptly left, closing the door behind him.

“Heh,” Bluebird sniggered next to him, “That was cooooold. Guess you’ll be missing your boytoy for a lil’ longer, huh?”

“I told you to stop calling him that,” Aza snapped, sulkily leaning back against the pillows and slouching, in a full-blown pout, “I’m going to kick him in the shins.”

“Who? Boytoy?”

“No, you- ugh. Papaya,” Aza groaned, “Smother me.”

“Too lazy,” Papaya yawned, still using Aza’s shins as a pillow, “Smother yourself.”

“Ugh.”

“I think it’s time we all sleep,” Crisp said pointedly, leaning over Aza to thump her book over Bluebird’s head. The Au Ra yelped in pain, “C’mon, put those cards away.”

“Fiiiine…” Bluebird picked up the cards off Aza’s lap, shuffling them into a deck and settling them onto the bedside table, “Oi, shove over.”

“I’m ill,” Aza grumbled, “Go find your own bed.”

“This _is_ my bed, and you’re in it. So, _shove over_.”

“Don’t you have an FC to defend from the Chocobros? Go do that.”

Crisp bonked him on the head too, drawing out a low whine of pain, “ _Children_ , shut up.”

Grumpily, the pair of them gave in. Aza slouched further down in the bed, and Bluebird flopped next to him – deliberately throwing an arm over his face and catching him on the nose. Well then, if she was going to play _that_ game with him.

“Oops~” Bluebird sneered, “Didn’t mean to-” CHOMP! “- _OW! YOU **MOTHERFUCKER**!”_

“Ah,” he faintly heard Crisp sigh over the noise of Bluebird’s shrieking, “There’s the bloodshed.”

 

* * *

 

The fight ended with Bluebird as the victor, who held no hesitation in punching someone right in their cracked ribs like the filthy cheater that she was. She was kicked out of the room for her crimes but Crisp was laughing at him all the while he wheezed pathetically in pain.

He really needed to get new friends.

**Author's Note:**

> So this became a monster of a fic when I only intended it to be a short little drabble. I just kept coming back to it and adding to it, and I had to cut it off before it became far too long, which is probably clear with how it ended (I had a lot more written up but I cut it out for length reasons). 
> 
> If you have any suggestions or prompts, please don't hesitate to put them in the comments! I'm also working on some PWP with Aymeric/WoL that I will... post... one day... 
> 
> Please kudos or comment if you liked!
> 
> ([Aza Lynel](https://belfire.dreamwidth.org/5257.html) for those wanting a pic of him)


End file.

When Ala Mhigo and Doma were liberated and started the shaky beginnings of climbing back to their feet, Ishgard rushed to capitalise on the opportunity it offered.

Already embroiled in a political battle to create an Ishgardian Grand Company and allowing the Eorzea Adventurer’s Guild access to the city itself, this was a topic both Houses were relieved to find quick, painless common ground on. Ala Mhigo and Doma were both weak, off-kilter, and _desperate_ for trade to revitalise their damaged infrastructure. In an effort to shed its previous reputation as cold and isolationistic, Ishgard agreed to send aid equal to that of its fellow city states – including Ishgardian engineers and architects skilled in the reconstruction of stonework damaged in battle and fire – and even suggested that such a thing should be celebrated to show solidarity between all parties involved.  A formal function, you could say, hosted by Ishgard with all the city states’ representatives attending to discuss the bright future awaiting Eorzea and its Doman allies.

Some of the old guard grumbled about opening their doors to foreigners, but it was perfect, politically. The smallfolk wished to see Ishgard taking the reins a bit more in regards to this Grand Eorzean Alliance, and the politicians wanted to bolster a government still clawing its way out of a theocracy struggling with an unsustainable class system. Getting ‘first dibs’, so to speak, on Ala Mhigan and Doman trade and diplomacy sounded like a fantastic way to inject some life back in their faltering economy – and a way to procrastinate from the Adventurer Guild Proposal that the Lord Chancellor kept stubbornly advocating for. That was a wall everyone was too exhausted to keep bashing their heads on – including the Lord Chancellor himself.

So, when the proposal – drafted by Minister Artoirel de Fortemps in the House of Lords – was first offered up to the Houses, everyone was so relieved that it wasn’t another rehash of the Grand Company and Adventurer’s discourse that it was passed before an hour had even passed. The invitations were written and sent out in the next.

By the end of the week, the date had been established. A month after the liberation of Ala Mhigo and Doma both, Ishgard will formally host them in the Holy See, along with the other City States, to celebrate their freedom and cement its solidarity with its fellow Eorzeans. All very cooperative and filled with ulterior motives, but one everyone was happy with. To sweeten the deal, the House of Lords managed to secure the Warrior of Light’s attendance by essentially throwing the Lord Chancellor at him and requesting his presence. It was, in short, the perfect arrangement.

Too perfect, really.

 

* * *

 

“Oh no,” Aymeric muttered quietly, his wine glass listing dangerously in his loosening grip, “He’s _handsome_.”

Lucia, who had been dutifully shadowing him for the first hour of this function, merely slanted a flat, unimpressed stare his way. “Sir, you always think he’s handsome.”

“Yes, but…” Aymeric shook himself out of his moment of stunned amazement, managing to catch himself before he dropped his wine all over the floor. He couldn’t look away from what had caught his attention though – there, standing by the grand double doors leading into the hall, Aza stood accompanied by Alisaie and Alphinaud, the three of them fashionably late. Not something that would usually garner such a reaction from him, but.

_Aza_ _wasn’t in armour_.

Aza, who once climbed up a tree and stayed there for four hours, throwing pinecones at anyone brave enough to scale up after him, in an effort to evade Tataru’s determined efforts to dress him in normal, formal attire, _wasn’t in armour_. It was as stunning as him simply striding through the doors naked – and even from across the room, Aymeric could tell that Aza appeared uncomfortably aware of his newfound vulnerability. Alisaie and Alphinaud bracketed him on either side, keeping him in place as they chatted to who Aymeric recognised as the Doman representative, Lord Hien. All of them seemed mildly amused at Aza’s obvious disgruntlement.

Aymeric allowed himself to trail his gaze over his partner, taking in the sleek, form-fitting dark shirt and trousers that hugged every curve of his body. He was always taken aback on how _curvy_ Miqo’te men could be around the hips, and those tight trousers very much emphasised it, showing off those powerful legs in all their shapely glory and hugging the perfect curve of his backsi-

“Sir, you’re staring,” Lucia chimed in.

Aymeric jolted, realising he’d spent the past minute staring, transfixed, at Aza’s backside, and very hurriedly directed his gaze elsewhere, like, hmmm, that chandelier up there. Very nice metalwork. Lovely. “Ah, was I?”

Lucia sighed next to him, sounding fondly amused, “He would probably thank you if you rescued him from his fellow Scions.”

He probably would, especially if Aymeric swooped in only to usher him into a secluded corner to ravish the wits out of him. The fantasy of it teased at him, but he swallowed the urge down, dropping his gaze from the chandelier to Aza again. Lord Hien said something and his partner’s disgruntled expression eased into something like reluctant amusement, the corners of his mouth curving into one of his more beautiful smiles as Lord Hien clapped a friendly hand on his shoulder.

“I think it would be best to let him mingle before I monopolise him,” Aymeric said, forcing himself to turn away before he gave in, “I still need to properly greet the Ala Mhigan representative as well. Lucia…?”

“This way, sir,” Lucia said, tilting her head towards where the Ala Mhigans had carved out their own little corner, their standoffishness rivalling that of their Ishgardian neighbours. Lady Lyse, at least, had enough charm and bullheaded friendliness to make up for it, but Aymeric knew that this was going to be a bit of an exhausting night facilitating between two taciturn city states.

But once he was done… Aymeric glanced, briefly, over at his partner. Well, he’ll be able to enjoy more pleasant company.

 

* * *

 

“I feel like I’m going to be backstabbed,” Aza complained, rolling his shoulders as he fought to ignore the itchy feeling between his shoulder blades. He’d been forced to leave his weapon with the guards in the entrance hall – Alphinaud complained he’d made a dramatic scene about it but Aza only (semi-)jokingly threatened the guard with one (1) case of dismemberment if he came back to the priceless blade missing – and without the comforting weight of his armour protecting his squishy, vulnerable body, he felt very… open. Discomforted.

“You are _not_ going to be backstabbed,” Alisaie huffed, “Stop being paranoid.”

“It’s not paranoia if there are people really out to get you,” Aza grumbled, looking about them suspiciously, “I swear, if another Garlean assassin stabs me one more time…”

“It terrifies me how that classes only as a minor inconvenience to you,” Alphinaud said, long desensitised to reports of Aza being stabbed after the fifth time it happened. He was getting jaded far too quickly for someone as of his young years, but Aza supposed it was part of growing up traumatised. “Besides, I’m sure Ser Aymeric has ensured that security is top priority.”

“I, too, have a contingent of faithful shinobi bolstering the defences, though it took a while to convince these Ishgardians to accept it,” Hein added, “A very proud, independent people, they are.”

“Yes, well, they spent the last one thousand years fighting an endless war of attrition by themselves,” Aza muttered, always getting a spark of irrational irritation whenever he thought about the Dragonsong War. It had been such a pointless conflict ignited by petty greed. “The majority of them are still learning how to ask for help after that.”

“Speaking of Ser Aymeric,” Alisaie interjected with a smirk, “I’m surprised at you, Aza.”

“Huh?” Aza blinked at her, “Eh? Why?”

“We’ve arrived and you haven’t _immediately_ abandoned us to leap into his arms,” Alisaie cocked her head to the side, “Like last time.”

“Yes, we didn’t see you for three days after that,” Alphinaud muttered in a disgruntled _sotto voce_.

“Well, last time I hadn’t seen him in a month,” Aza frowned, crossing his arms over his chest, “Now, I saw him literally five hours ago, and will most likely see him again tonight when I crawl into bed. He can keep.”

Hien glanced between them, his gaze shrewd, “Am I led to believe that you and Lord Aymeric are…?”

“Oh, right, I never told you,” Aza said with some surprise. Surprise because, during the long stretches of time in the Steppes and Doma, he and Hien did talk often. The Doman prince was as rambunctious as any adventurer, really, no matter how elegantly he spoke, and Aza wasn’t ashamed to admit that Aymeric was one of the few topics he repeatedly chatted to him about… and yet, neglected to mention the most important thing. Well, Aza was so used to everyone and their damned Chocobo knowing… “Aymeric and myself are together.”

Hien’s eyebrows rose briefly, but he took it all in good humour, smiling broadly at him, “Then congratulations, my friend! When is the wedding?”

“ _Wed-_ ” Aza coughed in surprise, “We’re not- we haven’t thought about that yet!”

“Which is strange, considering how they act,” Alisaie said, smiling wickedly. Aza eyed her in trepidation, “Anyone who didn’t know any better would already assume they’d tied the knot, as it were.”

“You mean they haven’t?” Alphinaud asked with such exaggerated surprise that Aza knew he was faking, “I had assumed…”

“Oh, ha ha ha,” Aza scoffed, “Shut up, all of you.”

“You know,” Hien began in a sly tone, “I have not yet officially introduced myself to your partner-to-be. Perhaps you could facilitate that?”

“It is obvious what you’re doing, Hien, but I don’t care,” Aza sniffed, forcibly pushing past the teasing of _marriage_ , “I’ll be more than happy to help you schmooze with him. I remember him being _very_ impressed with your aerial fighting skills back in Ala Mhigo, so I’m sure you two will get along fine.”

“In that case, if you’re doing that I am going to search for Lyse,” Alisaie said, slanting a glance Alphinaud’s way, “Coming, brother?”

“If I must,” Alphinaud sighed, “I need to speak her in regards to-”

“Oh, no,” Alisaie tutted, “This is going to be a _social_ visit, not ‘barrage her with political things that will fry her brain’ visit.”

“It’s a formal political function, where else would I-”

Hien and Aza watched the twins walk away, squabbling quietly with each other, and shared an amused glance.

“Come on,” Aza said, clasping a hand on Hien’s muscular shoulder and steering him through the crowd, “I think I saw Aymeric lurking over there. Probably fortifying himself with a bit of drink before charming the pants off of everyone.”

“Just to confirm I have everyone’s titles correct, Lord Aymeric is the… Speaker?” Hien hedged, letting himself be steered as he looked about them. The Ishgardian style of celebration was different to the Doman way, and Hien seemed attentive and interested in everything occurring around him, shrewdly logging details and mannerisms away. It was good, really. For Doma to form strong ties with its new Eorzean allies, it needed a leader that was flexible and open-minded.

“Yup. He’s the Speaker of the House of Lords and Lord Commander of the Temple Knights,” Aza smiled wryly, “He’s a bit of an overachiever and thrives off of stress, I guess.”

“I believe I remember him, somewhat, from Ala Mhigo,” Hein continued thoughtfully, “Tall Elezen, dark hair, blue styled armour?”

“Devastatingly handsome?” Aza added wickedly, “Yeah, that’s him. Speak to him?”

“We didn’t exchange words,” Hein said, “Not long after breaching the gates he charged after you into the palace.”

Oh, right, Aza remembered that. Aymeric actually caught up to him after the Magitek-Scorpion battle which had been mildly terrifying at the time. Aza had been determined to carve a safe, Garlean-free path for the remainder of the invasion force (Aymeric) so he remembered having a bit of a mad sprint to keep ahead of him, much to his party’s consternation. It had been such an exhausting, filthy day…

“Yeah, he likes keeping me on my toes like that,” Aza grumbled, frowning as they drifted past the wine table. He suppressed the urge to twitch when Hien cheerfully accepted a glass of wine from the servant manning it, shoving his hands deep into his pockets to hold back on snatching the glass out of Hien’s hand. While he got away with that behaviour with Aymeric and the Scions, he was aware that his friendship with Hien was still new and had not yet informed him of all of his crazy quirks.

Hien glanced over at him, taking in his expression, and without hesitation switched the topic, “I wish I was warned just how cold this land is,” he sighed, “I thought the Steppes brisk, but this place has a chill that bites into your bones.”

“Hm, yeah, if you’re not used to it, it can catch you off guard,” Aza said. When he’d first came to Coerthas, he’d spent the entire time shivering out of his skin – until he got the idea to stuff his armour full of fire shards. Stupid, because all they needed was an errant spark of aether to combust, but gods, it had been worth it for the toasty warmth they’d given him. Now the cold barely bothered him, “It’s part of the reason they’re so eager to make friends with everyone now that the war’s ended, from what I understand. They’re anticipating a population boom but their agriculture only _just_ barely sustains what they currently have.”

“Doma has plenty of fertile land yet untouched,” Hien admitted thoughtfully, “Though it would take us some time to develop enough to _export_ food.”

“I guess that’s what you’ll be hashing out with Aymeric,” Aza said, quickly losing interest in the conversation. He knew enough about politics to sort of understand where things were heading and why city states did things, but he hated discussing them and thinking about it because it made his head hurt. Just point him towards something that needed punching, please. He tried to shift the topic towards something _mildly_ interesting; “Ishgard will probably try to ply you with cannons and armour. They’ve got a special way of smithing that makes their chainmail lighter without impacting the structural integrity. Think it was to help dragoons with their jumps.”

“Really?” Hien perked in open interest, “Chainmail is very good but far too heavy for a shinobi to effectively do their duties, so they tend to do without. To have a lighter version without sacrificing protection…”

“Aza, are you _negotiating_ for me?”

Aza quickly turned towards the voice, expression brightening at seeing Aymeric slip out of the crowd with Lucia hot on his heels. As usual his partner looked _stunning_ and well-put together, even if he did look a little weary around the edges. No doubt he’d been spending the past hour doing his rotation through all the relevant circles and was thoroughly wiped from it.

“I’m just buttering Hien up for you,” Aza returned cheekily, his tail curving upwards in pleasure as he turned to his Doman friend, “Hien, this is the Lord Chancellor, Speaker of the House of Lords and Lord Commander of the Temple Knights, Ser Aymeric de Borel,” he gestured carelessly back at Hien, “Aymeric, this is Hien.”

“I can clearly see a bias here,” Hien drawled in good humour, not at all ruffled at his lacklustre introduction. His turned to face Aymeric fully, his mouth curving into a friendly grin as he gave a polite, Doman-style bow, “Lord Aymeric, it is a pleasure to finally meet the one the Warrior of Light holds in such high esteem. He has spoken often and well of you.”

“Has he?” Aymeric glanced at Aza, openly amused, “You’ve been singing my praises to future allies?”

“I never miss an opportunity to brag about you to people,” Aza said shamelessly, “It makes a statement, sort of like how a dog pisses on a tree. Stops awkward come ons from other people and all that.”

“That…” Hien started, looking like he was trying very hard not to laugh, “…is one way of putting it?”

“Very romantic,” Lucia muttered in a low deadpan.

“It’s better than literally pissing on me to mark territory, I suppose,” Aymeric said dryly.

“What?” Aza frowned, “I thought it expressed what I meant quite well.”

“Usually it’s best to use phrasing that doesn’t include urine,” Hien coughed, quickly hiding his growing grin behind his wineglass, “Or so I am led to believe when it comes to romantic compliments.”

“It’s not the worst one he’s given me,” Aymeric said, his tone lilting teasingly, “I do recall one time, where he said-”

Aza made a sharp noise, thwacking his partner’s thigh with his tail, “Oi, _no_. You _swore_ you’d forget about that!”

His partner paused, his eyes bright with mischief, “Did I? Hmm, I don’t remember promising that...”

“Oh?” Aza rocked back on his heels, his tone turning dangerously sweet, “Then perhaps _I_ won’t _remember_ to visit you tonight after this function. How about that?”

There was a very brief moment of silence.

“Did I say I didn’t remember that promise? I meant I did remember it,” Aymeric said quickly, flashing a brilliant smile that he only brought out when trying to charm his way out of trouble, “I disavow any knowledge of that, ah, particular incident.”

“Hmm…” Aza drew out the noise, suppressing a smirk when he noticed Aymeric almost fidgeting at his delayed response. It was maybe a little mean to tease his partner like this, but he really liked the way he would peek at him from beneath his eyelashes whenever he tried to charm him, mouth curved into the smallest of contrite smiles and, _mmm_ , really, if they weren’t in the middle of a crowded hall right now… “I’m not sure if you’re being sincere, handsome.”

“I’m being _very_ sincere,” Aymeric returned, his voice lowering slightly – almost edging on a purr – and Aza felt his pulse pick up, his tail curving up a little more as he unconsciously leaned in slightly, hypnotised by the devious little flirt; “If you want, I’ll demonstrate how muc-”

“Sir,” Lucia prompted mildly, cutting into the moment and making the both of them jolt, “Lord Hien…?”

Oh. Right. Aza… forgot about him.

Aymeric quickly turned back to Hein, masterfully schooling his expression into one of polite innocence. How he could do that without looking even the slightest bit embarrassed, Aza had no clue and he was deeply envious of the skill. He could feel his cheeks starting to turn red and he focused very hard on Hien’s knees, his pulse still racing a little.

“Apologies for getting side-tracked,” his partner said without so much as a shred of shame, “You were saying…?”

Hien, mercifully, allowed the subject change, and when Aza peeked up at him, realised with a sinking feeling that he had the same shite-eating grin he had before the Nadaam, “How the Warrior of Light spoke oft and well of you,” he said, then continued in an innocent tone equal to Aymeric’s, “Though, from the sounds of it, perhaps it was because he missed you terribly when accompanying myself through Othard. For which I apologise, as I know better than most how unpleasant homesickness can be.”

Okay, no, Hien _wasn’t_ merciful, the little _asshole_.

“I-I wasn’t _homesick_ ,” Aza blurted, horribly aware his face was probably an embarrassing shade of bright red at this point, “I was, um, _person_ sick, maybe.”

“’Personsick’,” Aymeric repeated slowly.

“The unflattering terms continue,” Hien said teasingly.

“They’re not _unflat-_ ” Aza cut himself off, flustered, and glanced over at Lucia who was admirably keeping a neutral expression, “Lucia, help me out here!”

“I can’t save hopeless causes,” she said, utterly straight-faced.

“Oh,” Hien whistled quietly, “Savage.”

“You’re all bullies,” Aza grouched, crossing his arms over his chest and openly sulking, “I can be romantic and charming when I feel like it.”

“So, you’re saying you’re intentionally being unflattering?” Hien asked with mock-innocence.

“Now, now, Aza speaks the truth,” Aymeric cut in, “He can be very charming when the mood strikes him.”

“Thank you,” Aza sniffed, though he did eye his partner a little suspiciously. His partner’s smile was full of mischief and he didn’t trust it one bit.

“Granted,” Aymeric continued, “It is usually in the early hours, where he is as affectionate as-”

“If you say kitten, I will take a vow of chastity here and now,” Aza said flatly.

“-a very adult, person-shaped lover,” Aymeric finished, a tad awkwardly.

Quietly, Aza heard Lucia mutter, “By the Fury,” under her breath. He felt for her, really.

“It’s not a romantic night for either of you, is it?” Hien asked mildly.

“I think he’s drunk, because he’s usually a lot smoother than that,” Aza said with growing amusement, “Aymeric, how much have you had?”

“Not a lot,” Aymeric said quickly, “Perhaps a few more than usual when meeting the Ala Mhigans.”

“He drank almost a whole wine bottle in the span of an hour,” Lucia piped up.

Aymeric turned to his trusted lieutenant with an expression of betrayal, “Lucia, how could you?”

“Wow, okay,” Aza said, genuinely surprised. Ishgardian wine was very potent, something Aza learned the hard way when he did that stupid, drunken public love confession. Almost two bottles of wine worth of alcohol as all it took to utterly wreck him, so for Aymeric to be so _eloquent_ when he was probably teetering the line of _very drunk_ was… terrifyingly impressive, “Is that why you’re shepherding him, Lucia?”

“I was hoping to give him to you, actually,” Lucia said, “But then I remembered we hadn’t introduced ourselves to the Doman representative.”

“And we have been introduced,” Hien said quickly, giving his wine glass a bit of a look as if trying to gauge how strong the wine actually was. Aza’ll let him discover that on his own, “I, myself, need to speak with my Ala Mhigan friends.”

“I can introduce you,” Lucia offered quickly, “Sir, Aza.”

“What-” Aymeric began, looking a little puzzled – but it was too late. Hien quickly gave his goodbyes and Lucia led him into the crowd, leaving Aza and Aymeric behind.

“Lucia dumped you,” Aza started to laugh, reaching out to pat Aymeric’s arm when the man continued to stare in confusion at where his lieutenant literally escaped him with Hien in tow, “You’re a menace when drunk, c’mon.”

“You didn’t even realise until halfway into our conversation,” Aymeric muttered, and now that Aza was paying attention, he was speaking very carefully and a tad slower than usual to hide any slurring or stumbling over his words. Very clever and spoke volumes of his alcohol tolerance, but now that Aza was looking, it was very clear that he was either very tipsy, or just plain drunk.

“That’s because I was distracted by you trying to seduce me, you silly man,” Aza hummed, pressing a hand against Aymeric’s lower back and urging him on. They carefully made their way through the crowd to a rather secluded corner, half-hidden by a pillar.

“Let’s stay here until you sober up a bit,” he said, “I can grab you some water, hold on-”

“No, it’s fine,” Aymeric gave himself a little shake and leaned against the pillar in a shocking display of casualness that he rarely did in public. Aza studied him, taking in the slightly flushed cheeks, his heavy-lidded dark eyes, the way his partner was gazing at him with a look that… hmm… “Your company is all I want at the moment.”

“Now that’s a lot smoother than before,” Aza said, humouring him. Aymeric was devilishly attractive when tipsy, he thought with some dismay, but he was leery of taking advantage. It was one thing for drunken kisses and fooling around in the comfort of Aymeric’s home, but here in a public function half-hidden behind a pillar in a crowded hall was something else entirely. Aymeric may think it a pleasing idea right now, but afterwards… “Why did you drink so much? You’re normally very careful at these things.”

“Hmm…” Aymeric closed his eyes, lifting a hand to his forehead, “The Ala Mhigans were… trying, in a way,” he admitted, his voice dropping into a low, purring murmur. Ah, there’s the slight slurring, “And I was trying to distract myself from something.”

“Distract?” Aza prompted when Aymeric didn’t continue. He felt concern puncture through his amusement, “Is something the matter, handsome? Do I need to beat someone up for you?”

Aymeric laughed, lowering his hand, “No, no, nothing like that. I was… I notice you don’t have your armour today.”

Aza blinked at the non-sequitur, “Uh, yeah? I got ambushed and they made me wear this.”

It had been a terrible battle, one that he lost because Crisp fought dirty and was not afraid to cast a sleep spell on a trusted friend and party member just because she found it funny. When he woke up from his magic-induced nap, he found himself in these clothes with Crisp saying that the only way he’d get his armour back was if he attended this function for at least two hours. He was going to piss in a bottle and pass it off as beer to her when he next got the chance, the little…

“It looks nice,” Aymeric said, his gaze slowly trailing over his body, “Very nice.”

“Oh?” Aza… fidgeted, feeling oddly flustered about the compliment. Lots of people said he looked nice, but when Aymeric did it, combined with _that_ look… “What do you like about it?”

“Very form-fitting,” Aymeric replied, definitely purring now, “Especially on the backside.”

“You’ve been staring at my ass?” Aza coughed out a laugh at that, “Aymeric, you _pervert_.”

“I like it very much,” he said shamelessly, not at all bothered, “It took a lot of effort to look away, and not whisk you away to ravish you behind a pillar like… hm, like this, I suppose.”

“And people say _Miqo’te_ are the frisky ones,” Aza huffed, “Clearly they never met you Ishgardians when making that stereotype.”

“It may just be me,” Aymeric admitted with a smile, “You simply grow handsomer each time I look at you, Aza. I’m simply too weak to resis-”

“Stop, stop, stop,” Aza waved his hands, and Aymeric obediently quietened, “You sap. You’re drunk.”

“Mmhm, I am,” Aymeric said agreeably.

“So, sadly, no ravishing, if only for my own peace of mind,” Aza sighed, “But later…” he paused, biting his bottom lip briefly. Aymeric’s gaze focused on his mouth with such intent Aza found it difficult to resist himself, “ _Later_ ,” he stressed, “When you’re a little soberer, and we’re in bed, we’ll… do something special.”

“Special?” Aymeric asked, his voice husky.

“Yup, special,” Aza smirked, letting his hips sway slightly, his tail flicking playfully from side to side, “I’ll let you imagine what… but for now, I want you to sober up a little and finish up tonight, okay?”

Aymeric was quiet for a moment, desire clear in his expression, but he sighed and straightened up from his slouch against the pillar, “Alright. I agree to that.”

“Good, okay,” Aza patted his hip, “Then let’s get you a glass of water, maybe a walk outside.”

Aymeric just hummed. Aza had to shake his head in disbelief. This man, honestly, he would’ve thought he’d know better.  

“Remember, _later_ ,” Aza murmured to him, giving him a friendly pat on the backside before moving away, “Now let’s go, handsome, before you cause more trouble.”

“Yes, dear,” Aymeric said in open amusement, obediently following him back out onto the floor.

Honestly, and people thought _Aymeric_ was the reasonable one in this relationship.   

**Author's Note:**

> This was just a dumb idea I got when talking to an FC mate of mine because I finally changed Aza's glam. For those curious it's the Amenous gambison (dyed jet black) with taoist trousers (dyed slate grey) with those long boots with the lovely heels. I would screenshot but sadly my computer is being a bit troublesome with screencaps. One day...! But yes, it's all sleek and I noticed the trousers really hugged his butt and the gamibon looks very tight over the chest too sooooooo...
> 
> Anyways, please comment/kudos if you liked!


End file.

When the Garleans were ousted from Ala Mhigo, the Eorzean Alliance had to step into certain roles in the power vacuum that followed. In the absence of a central governing body or even a merged military faction to establish order in the uncertainty that followed the fighting, the Grand Companies plus Ishgard took up that burden. In a weekly rotation, each Grand Company and Ishgard fulfilled the role of guards, patrol, reaction force and rest, supported by local Ala Mhigan Resistance Forces who followed Lyse.

It wasn’t the perfect solution, but it worked.

Kind of.

Simply put after the liberation of Ala Mhigo everyone’s forces were _stretched_. With the City States spreading their forces between their personal protection, the reinforcement of Baelser’s Wall _and_ establishing a forward headquarters at Ala Mhigo, there were some duties they simply couldn’t fulfil. This resulted in a large influx of adventurers pouring into Ala Mhigo who took up the low-level duties of monster extermination and supply runs with gutso. It did mean another hole for money to bleed through, though, which was another thing in short supply.

War was expensive, after all, especially ones involving reconstruction of infrastructure.

But hey, those worries weren’t Aza’s. Those were the Eorzean Alliance leaders’ (and Alphinaud’s) issues to solve. His worries tended to be the more material, physical sort such as monsters menacing the fledging Saltery at Loch Seld. An issue easily solved with application of violence and skill.

The Saltery, after all, was a recent source of jobs for adventurers too. Anticipated to become a source of revenue to fuel Ala Mhigo’s reconstruction, a lot of money was being poured into its security and hiring. Only local, to the chagrin of many foreign adventurers, but there were no shortages of monsters needing to be killed in the surrounding lochs. Oddly the Garleans hadn’t been too bothered about the monster presence exploding in this area but from what Aza gathered Garleans didn’t view salt as all that valuable.

That or they had a source in Garlemald that was more cost effective to mine than importing it from Ala Mhigo, which, fair.

In short, there were a lot of adventurers in Ala Mhigo these days. A fact that Aza wouldn’t mind except, well, it meant there wasn’t much to _do_. All these adventurers taking the more exciting monster hunting jobs, and with the title of Liberator hanging over his head, would-be employers were leery of saddling Aza with ‘grunt work’ despite him insisting that he was 100% okay with moving crates for _free_.

Honestly, sometimes fame was overrated.

* * *

 

“I’m so bored.”

Aymeric didn’t look from where he was supervising the cannon drills over the Lochs, “You’ve said.”

“I haven’t done anything in _two days_ ,” Aza groaned, slumped over the battlements as he watched the Eorzean Alliance forces mill about below. There were a mixture of Bertha cannons and the Maelstrom variant lined up ready to fire – some sort of ‘familiarisation exercise’, if Aza remembered rightly. The cannons, despite having a similar base design, had critical differences in utility and maintenance, as one type was made to penetrate the thick hides of dragons and the other to cause maximum collateral damage against ships.

“I thought there was some issue over at the Saltery?” Aymeric asked.

“Yeah, there _was_. But someone else snapped the job up,” Aza grumbled, “And I’m apparently too _overqualified_ to do easy supply runs or errands. Overqualified!”

Aymeric made an odd noise like he only just managed to stifle a reply.

“I even told them I’d do it for _free_! I mean, Gods know I have enough gil to make a house out of the damned _coins_ , what do I need pocket money for? But no, they keep saying I’ve ‘done more than enough’ and that they ‘couldn’t _possibly_ trouble me with such grunt work’! I want to do grunt work! I want to! Why won’t anyone believe me when I say that?”

“Probably due to the fact that they’re awed by you,” Aymeric said dryly, looking unruffled at Aza’s dramatic wailing, “Granted, that awe would wane if they spent more than a handle of hours in your presence-”

“Hey!”

“-but in their eyes, you’re a living legend. They are not going to ask you to chase off an infestation of rats or transport crates when just last week you slew the Primal Lakshmi in the Ala Mhigan Palace.”

“That was a group effort,” Aza protested, “And Arenvald helped a lot, but _he_ still gets jobs.”

Aymeric gave him a look that he recognised as the ‘By-the-Fury-you-are-so-dumb-but-you’re-handsome-so-I-forgive-you’ stare, “Arenvald hasn’t liberated two city states, killed dozens of Primals, become King of the Azim Steppes-”

“Khaagan!” Aza interrupted, “And it’s nothing to brag about, really, because I got it by beating up a bunch of Xaela. Plenty of adventurers have done that.”

“The point being,” Aymeric said, “Is that Arenvald hasn’t cultivated a reputation yet, though the Lakshmi incident certainly laid the foundations of it. You have been doing fantastical things since you arrived in Eorzea.”

“That is a blatant falsehood,” Aza grumbled, “I spent a good few weeks doing low-levelled mercenary work.”

“Where you retrieved the Sultana’s crown from thieves and fought an Ascian single-handedly?”

“What- I- who’s been telling you that stuff?” Aza frowned, “No, look, it wasn’t as heroic as it sounds.”

“Oh?”

“Yeah, I…” Aza paused, trying to think of the most unflattering way he could describe his Ul’dah escapades, “I, uh… well, okay it’s exactly as it sounds. _But_ I had back up from Papashan! From the Sultansworn!”

“Mmhm.”

“ _And_ that Ascian only lost because he… uh…” Aza paused, “I actually don’t know why he lost. In retrospect he seemed suspiciously easy to beat.”

“That aside,” Aymeric said, “You have a reputation. Perhaps wrongly, the commonfolk think that there is a standard that needs to be met for you to take up a job.”

“A standard?” Aza considered this, “Well, I mean… I guess I can see that. But even when I tell them I have no standards, they still won’t give me anything.”

Aymeric’s response to this was a pointed shrug of his shoulders.

“Ugh,” Aza sulked for a few minutes, watching the soldiers below run through the last part of their dry drills, before the live firing began. “Well, how about _you_ give me a job, then?”

“What?”

“A job, Aymeric. A job,” Warming up to the idea, Aza turned to Aymeric with a smile, “Something fun! Like, I don’t know… do you need a monster to be hunted down?”

“Ah, no-”

“Something to be gathered? Supplies? Hides? Meat? Guess I could do plants at a stretch but I am a casual botanist…”

“Aza, I don’t-”

“Or bandits. Does Ala Mhigo have a bandit problem?”

“No, the adventurers-”

“Oh, right, of course they’d hustle in on that stuff. Well, I’ve been working on my blacksmithing, so I guess I could go over the Temple Knights’ equipment…”

“ _Aza_ ,” Aymeric cut in exasperatedly, “Stop. Don’t do any of that.”

“But…” Aza pouted, his ears drooping and tail tucking low, “I want to do something…”

“How about taking this time to relax?” Aymeric suggested, his attention waning towards the cannons below, “When was the last time you willingly took a day or two off?”

“Why, just… um…” Aza paused in thought. Well, alright, he fought off Lakshmi last week, then the weeks before that was Ala Mhigo’s liberation, and the month prior to that was the Doma liberation and the Azim Steppes Nadaam, and the month prior to _that_ was the Alexander business, and the month prior to _that_ …

“Oh,” Aza said, “Huh.”

“Exactly,” Aymeric nudged Aza’s shoulder, “You have the spare key to my quarters. Go and relax. Before a new world crisis sweeps you off your feet.”

“Well, okay…” Aza said slowly, half expecting just that to happen in the next few minutes, “I’ll take a break.”

“Mmhm.”

“You’ll tell me if anything happens?”

“I’m sure the Scions will inform you of anything relevant to you.”

That wasn’t a yes, Aza noted with a frown, but he didn’t call Aymeric on it.

“Alright then…” Aza took a few slow steps away from the battlements. Aymeric was looking down at the cannons. He could hear the soldiers below yelling the beginnings of the live drills. “I’m going now then.”

“I’ll see you after the drills are done,” Aymeric said over his shoulder.

“Okay,” Aza said, taking another few steps. Nothing happened. He took a few more confidently. Still nothing happened. “See you later, handsome.”

Aymeric lifted a hand in farewell, and Aza hurried back to their quarters, half expecting the sky to fall down.

His walk back was utterly uneventful.

Huh.

* * *

 

The problem with being used to constantly working that when he had free time… Aza had no idea how to spend it.

Well, no, that was a lie. He knew how to spend his free time with other people, but by himself he wasn’t sure. Usually if he found himself in between jobs he ended up getting whisked up into other people’s drama (Hildibrand), taking on a second job (Post Moogle) or resisting Felyx’s attempts to drag him into the cutthroat world of crafting (he didn’t care how profitable it was he was _not_ going down that rabbit hole of insanity).

Aza sighed and lowered the book he had been reading, resting it on his chest as he stared up at Aymeric’s ceiling. Distantly, he could hear the staccato rumble of cannonfire and he wondered if, maybe, it counted as relaxing to jump on the next airship to Cartenau and participate in the Frontlines. Sure, he ended up getting dogpiled by every adventurer in the area so they could brag about knocking the vaunted Warrior of Light on his ass, but surely it was more fun than… loitering.

His gaze dropped to the armour neatly stacked up next to the dresser and instantly dropped the idea. He was far too lazy to get changed now.

Picking up his book again, he rolled over onto his stomach with a heavy sigh, finding his page. It was an interesting book at least, though _very_ blasphemous by Ishgard’s previous standards. It was, from what Aza had read so far, historical fiction on Saint Shiva and her love of Hraesvelger and it was _remarkably_ well-written. The romance was so fleshed out and sweet and made Aza a little teary-eyed in some parts… but it also had some intensely erotic parts that somehow made an Elezen/Dragon pairing _not_ weird. If Aza had any curiosity on how Saint Shiva and Hraesvelger ever had sex, it was now well and fully sated.

“Oh, Shiva…” Aza sighed as he finally reached the part where the heroine agonised over how Hraesvelger would live on in grief without her, “If only you could have become a dragon. I bet that would’ve been a nice ending.”

Shiva seemed to agree. As he read on, now becoming more and more absorbed in this romantic drama, the story changed from what was known as historical fact. Through a long, arduous quest which Shiva took in secret from Hraesvelger, she managed to change her form into that of a dragon. There was much joy in the end – and very detailed, explicit dragon sex too – and Aza felt a bittersweet kind of emotion when he finally shut the book.

If only such a happy ending actually happened.

“Hmm…” Aza turned the book over, studying its worn cover. He dug this out of Aymeric’s recreational reading pile, hence his surprise when he found out how ‘blasphemous’ it was, but now he was curious to see what else was in there. He wouldn’t have thought this to be to Aymeric’s tastes.

Sliding off the bed, absently noting the lack of distant cannonfire, he meandered over to Aymeric’s little book pile. It was sat on the edge of his desk, which was otherwise consumed by an unholy amount of paperwork and documents, and he picked up the top one.

“Let’s see… oh? ‘The Miqo’te Huntress and the Elezen Knight’?”

Aza stared at the title for a long moment, then picked up the next book. This was one ‘Storms of Camaraderie’, but when he opened a random page it was damn-smack in the middle of a threesome scene that was obviously written by someone well-experienced in it. Aza was _delighted_.

Who would’ve thought that Ser Aymeric of Ishgard was a lover of _erotic literature_?

He stared at the small pile of books sitting so innocuously on the desk… and promptly scooped them all up into his arms. Tail swishing with amusement, Aza ambled back to the bed and dumped the books on them, before hopping lightly onto the mattress and making himself very comfortable.

Looked like he found something to occupy his free time~

* * *

 

Aymeric had very very very _very_ good tastes in erotic literature.

Aza was enraptured by the Miqo’te Huntress R’shaalyo, a fiercely independent spitfire of a woman that honestly charmed him within the first few pages. It helped that he connected with her instantly, with her desire to explore the world instead of being tied down to her tribe to live out her days as one of its huntresses. It only took a chapter before she encountered the roguish Elezen Knight Hauvax during one of her hunts, where he had been separated from the rest of his men due to an ambush by bandits and ultimately became lost in the forest where R’shaalyo lived. It was a very compelling story, and Aza barely noticed the sun slowly setting as he eagerly read how a passionate yet tempered romance blossomed between the unlikely pair as they tried to return to Hauvax’s home.

He just got up to the first erotic scene, actually, where they finally realised their love for each other (ten chapters! Aza had practically been groaning from frustration with how long it took for them to _finally_ get a clue) when he heard the door to the room open. His flicked his ear towards the noise, immediately knowing it was Aymeric.

“Hey,” he said distractedly, not lifting his gaze from the book in his hands, “How were the cannon drills?”

“Fine,” Aymeric sighed, sounding weary. There was a noise of him walking about the room, followed by the creak of leather and metal as he stripped off his armour, “Apologies it took so long.”

“S’fine,” Aza replied, finally putting his book down after ear-marking the page he was on and looking over his shoulder to see Aymeric tugging off his breastplate, “You okay?”

“Mm,” Aymeric set the armour down on the dresser, lifting a hand to rub the back of his neck, “Yes, just a little tired. Don’t mind me.”

“Hmm…” Aza sat up and started cleaning up the mess he made of the bed. The books were carefully and neatly put on the bedside dresser, and by that time Aymeric had stripped down to his breeches, “Hey, hey, come here.”

Aymeric glanced over at him curiously but obeyed, his exhausted expression lighting up into a small smile, “What are you up to?”

“Nothing naughty, don’t worry,” Aza said, patting the now-cleared spot on the bed next to him, “Lie down here. I’ll give you a massage.”

“Hmm…” Aymeric definitely looked amused now, pausing only briefly next to the bed before obediently lying down on his front. Most likely he was trying to figure out what Aza’s angle was – it was no secret he tended to use his massages to sweeten suggestions and the like, “I feel like I should be suspicious.” 

“Hush, I’m just in a good mood,” Aza immediately straddled the back of Aymeric’s thighs once he was lying down on the bed, pressing his palms against his lower back and slowly smoothing them up. He was as tense as a rock, he mentally noted, starting to gently knead into the worst of the knots between his shoulder blades. 

Aymeric replied with a noise that was barely decent and Aza knew he wasn’t going to get anything intelligible out of him for the next ten minutes or so.

“So, I had a nice relaxing day,” Aza said absently, pressing his thumb into a particularly bad knot. Aymeric muffled a groan, “I read some of your books. You have good tastes.”

“Mm?”

“Yup, I read the Miqo’te Huntress one, with R’shaalyo. Just got up to the part where she’s about to ride Hauvax to happiness, if you know what I mean.”

“Mmhm.”

“Erotic literature…” Aza couldn’t keep the note of laughter out of his voice, “I wouldn’t have pegged you for it, though I should’ve. You’re very dirty-minded and lusty when you want to be.”

Aymeric didn’t protest – it was _true_ , after all. No one would think it looking at the well-mannered and dignified Ser Aymeric, but gods, in the bedroom he was like a fiend. Not that Aza was complaining. It was nice to have a partner who wasn’t shy about his wants and followed through with a bold sort of confidence… and skill. Definitely a lot of skill there. Thank whoever Aymeric got down and dirty with in his earlier years for imparting such important life skills onto him.

“I might borrow a few off you, if you don’t mind?” he continued, kneading down more firmly and smirking when it drew a very pleasing noise from Aymeric, “Oh, you are _tense_. What have you been doing, shoulder-pressing the cannons?”

“Mm, no…” Aymeric murmured into his arms, practically purred, really, and it was _adorable_. Not quite a proper Miqo’te purr, but it was enough to make Aza smile like an idiot.

“Well, whatever you’ve been doing, it’s made you all knotted up,” he said, pressing right into a knot. Aymeric wriggled a little under him, muscles tensing up a little more. Aza immediately eased up a fraction, “Oh, sorry, was that too hard?”

“No,” Aymeric relaxed again, letting out a short little sigh, “That was… just right. Please do that again.”

“M’kay,” Aza pressed his thumb right into the knot, rubbing tight circles until he felt it ease up. Little by little, Aymeric relaxed under him, and soon Aza was smoothing his hands up and down back, shamelessly enjoying the feel of well-toned muscle under his palms.

Aymeric was nicely put together, Aza mused, pressing his thumbs into the little dip of his lower back and gently kneading the muscle there. He was muscular but nicely toned, and it complemented his slender frame so well. It was best when seeing him in action, though – oh, yes, in the rare few times he’s seen him spar or fight, watching him gracefully and fluidly move through the battlefield… people forgot, nowadays, because he was in a more bureaucratic role, but Aymeric was a _very_ skilled fighter. Enough to make Aza break a sweat whenever they sparred.

He wasn’t all that scarred either. Aza let his thumb brush over a very pale, thin scar that swept away from Aymeric’s spine in a sloping curve. It looked far too neat to be from a battle wound, and he felt Aymeric shiver beneath him as he gently rubbed it. Probably one of the few lingering marks from his ‘thorough questioning’ in the Vault.

Aza squashed that train of thought before it could bring his good mood down, smoothing his hands up along Aymeric’s back so he could give his shoulders a nice squeeze, “I bet this is because you hunch over your desk so much. I would’ve thought a man of your standing would have better posture.”

“You shouldn’t throw stones in glass houses, Aza,” Aymeric mumbled sleepily into his crossed arms, “You always complain about back pain.”

“That’s because I swing around fifty-five ponze worth of metal all day,” Aza sniffed, “As well as acting as a striking dummy for every monster and Primal to cross my path. It’s a miracle I’m not an invalid yet.”

He was certainly beginning to feel his age nowadays. Thirty-three was still within the range of peak physical condition, but goodness, he put his body through so much abuse he forgot what it felt like to be completely absent of pain. His knees ached, his back hurt, he had to remember to bind his left ankle if he was going for a long jaunt because it never quite recovered after he snapped it completely in half that one time, and he had reduced range in his right hip because of previous injury that _always_ made him limp in cold weather, etcetera, etcetera… 

…geeze. He was making himself sound like an old man.

“I suppose not,” he could practically _feel_ Aymeric’s smile when he added, “Just slightly creaky right now.”

“I don’t _creak_!” Aza huffed, “I just… it only happens in the mornings!”

“And the evenings, and whenever you stretch, and if you bend over…” Aymeric chuckled into his crossed arms, “It makes me nervous that you’ll slip a disc one day.”

“I’ll slip _your_ disc…” Aza grumbled, though he did have to concede the point, “But there’s not much I can do about it. My body’s a wreck, if you haven’t noticed.”

“Hmm, I wouldn’t say that,” Aymeric said, “Weathered and rugged, perhaps, but not wrecked.”

“That’s just the polite way of saying it,” Aza smiled wryly, sitting back on Aymeric’s thighs and letting his hands rest in the dip of his lower back. His gaze trailed over his own bared arm, seeing the old scars from a lifetime of fighting littering the tanned skin. He didn’t find them anything to be ashamed of but… well, he was aware that they were off-putting to most people.

“But I know you have peculiar tastes,” he continued, making his tone light.

“Peculiar… mm, you certainly are that,” Aymeric sighed, before shifting his weight to the side just so. Getting the hint, Aza lifted himself up slightly, letting Aymeric roll over under him.

“That was blunt,” Aza said, sitting back down on Aymeric’s thighs, leaning forwards until he was sprawled over the taller man’s chest, feeling that taut body press up against his in a pleasing line of heat. He felt Aymeric’s hands smooth over his sides, following the curve of the waist to his hips.

“But peculiar isn’t bad,” Aymeric added, giving Aza a smile that was – very fond and warm and made his stomach flutter oddly. Aza felt his face warm and he glanced away to the slope of Aymeric’s shoulder instead. There was a very pale scar there, faded with time – but Aza instantly recognised it as the remains of a wild swipe from some clawed creature, most likely a dragon.

“I’m literally more scar tissue than man, at this point,” Aza pointed out wryly – and squeaked when, without warning, Aymeric abruptly rolled them over and pressed him into the mattress, “Oof! A little more warning!”

“Hmm, I would’ve thought the Echo would have warned you?” Aymeric said cheekily, bracketing him in with his arms and leaning in close – so close that Aza instinctively tilted his head, lips parting slightly in anticipation of a kiss; and whining when instead Aymeric ducked his head lower to kiss his jawline instead, lazily and warm.

“Mmn… doesn’t work like that,” Aza muttered absently, shivering when he felt Aymeric’s hands slowly roam his body, fingers tracing old scars over his stomach and chest, feather-light and almost ticklish. “Aymeric…”

“If people find your body wrecked or undesirable…” Aymeric murmured, pushing down lower, his mouth brushing over the pulse-point at his throat. Aza swallowed reflexively, tilting his head back farther, “Then they’re fools. But,” a sharp nip, one that made Aza gasp and his toes curl, “I’m grateful for it. Their loss is my gain.”

Aza was fairly certain he was bright-red at this point – he couldn’t help but blush whenever Aymeric said those straight-forward words. He murmured such adoring praise to him and it both delighted and embarrassed him in equal measure. It was an oddly intoxicating yet agonising feeling to endure.

“You are a shameless sap,” Aza managed to say, his voice a little uneven and breathless as Aymeric slowly, torturously slowly, trailed a line down his throat, over his collarbone, along his pecs to… oh- his breathing stuttered, fingers curling into his thick hair as Aymeric’s mouth relentlessly teased and nipped at a dusky nipple, “A-And a… s-scoundrel…”

“Mm…” Aymeric didn’t sound ashamed in the slightly, sounding far too pleased with himself as he drove Aza to the edge of _madness_. He granted him mercy, though, moving away after several long, tortuously sweet, moments, moving down, down… following the line of a smooth, sharp scar that cut diagonally over his stomach. It tingled at the touch.

Aza pressed his head back against the pillow, staring sightlessly up at the ceiling as he shakily stroked his fingers through Aymeric’s hair, his other hand fisted tight in the sheets beneath him. Every brush of Aymeric’s lips over his skin made him tremble, his abs tightening and something warm clenching low in his belly. The sheer reverence Aymeric delivered to his scars made him feel hot and restless, bewildered that someone like Aymeric – who was handsome and kind and could have whoever he desired in Ishgard if he so wished – would find them something to marvel over. Peculiar tastes indeed.

Aymeric paused at his navel, thumb rubbing gently over the front of his breeches. “Aza?”

“Yes,” Aza murmured without hesitation, arching his lower back and giving his hips a tiny, inviting buck.

Deftly, Aymeric undid his breeches but didn’t hurry onwards. Instead he focused on mapping out the firm lines of his abdominals with his mouth, gently teasing at any scars that crossed over them. It made Aza squirm, heels slowly pressing and grinding into the bed with a restlessness he couldn’t quite control, letting his eyes slide closed.

His breeches and underclothes were tugged down low on his hips, and Aza swallowed a noise when Aymeric gently nuzzled down the trail of hair leading down from his navel, his strong hands pressing down on his hips, holding him in place and then-

“ _Fuck_ -!”

Aymeric boldly wrapped his lips around his cock without so much as a shred of hesitation.

“Mn…” Aza struggled to keep his fingers relaxed in Aymeric’s hair, focusing on stroking, stroking, stroking, keeping them moving so he didn’t clench like he wanted to, his other hand keeping a white-knuckled grip on the bedsheet beneath him. Aymeric’s mouth was hot and perfect and- fuck. He exhaled shakily, his heart hammering against his ribs as slowly, by gentle increments, Aymeric dipped his head lower and lower and lower…

So slow, but so _good_. Aza panted hard, a low, shamelessly loud moan pulling itself deep from his throat when Aymeric abruptly pulled back to the very tip, his warm tongue dragging over the slit and- fucking-

“A-Aym… Aymeric…” Aza groaned, daring to open his eyes and look down and – oh, Gods, that sight should be fucking _illegal_. Aymeric’s head between his legs, gently bobbing down, taking him whole in his mouth again- fucking. Aza quickly squeezed his eyes shut, tossing his head back as he felt- felt his cock hit the back of Aymeric’s throat and he _swallowed_ and- oh.

Fiend, he thought feverishly, Aymeric had no business being able to deep-throat like a champ. His fingers curled tight into that soft hair, hips beginning to rock as Aymeric’s hold began to relax, coaxing him into a rhythm that met the careful bobs of his head. It was fantastic – amazing – and Aza could only focus on that; Aymeric’s hot mouth, the drag of lips against his cock, the pressure when he swallowed – the heat building and clenching low and tight and-

Aymeric _purred_ , flattening his tongue against the underside of his cock and- fucking _Twelve_!

“ _Fuck_ … I-I’m…” Aza choked out, not even ashamed at how quickly his arousal started to hit its peak, grinding his heels hard into the bed as his hips jerked in short, controlled yet frantic little thrusts, Aymeric’s hands tight around them, “Can’t- I-I need…!”

He couldn’t finish. With a cry that would most _definitely_ be heard from outside the room, Aza hit his peak hard. His back arched as he whined low, pleasure blossoming as this lovely white-hot thrum that made him see stars, a pleasure that was drawn out wonderfully by Aymeric’s mouth swallowing and swallowing and- oh, fuck, he just-

“S-Sorry,” he panted dazedly, combing his fingers clumsily through his hair when he realised he gave little to no warning about that. But, as usual, Aymeric took it like a champ, giving him one last, firm suckle before lifting his head with an obscene, wet noise, lips reddened and plump with a smudge of cum on the corner of his mouth and by the Gods fuck him right now.

“It’s alright,” Aymeric murmured huskily, his voice sounding wrecked but _lovely_. He licked his lips, catching that smudge of cum, and then moved in slow, predatory movements, up along his body until they were practically nose to nose. Aza tilted his head in anticipation, barely able to focus from his wits throwing themselves into the wind.

“I want- mmn…” Aza’s drowsy purr was cut off from Aymeric’s mouth meeting his – bitter. He groaned when he tasted himself on Aymeric’s tongue, “Mnff…”

Aymeric chuckled, a low rumble that made Aza shiver all over to hear, and pulled away, his hand running feather-light up and down his side, “You want…?” he prompted.

“Forgot,” Aza mumbled stupidly, still entranced by the wonderful quality of Aymeric’s rough voice, and curled his fingers against the nape of his neck, applying light pressure, “Mn, actually, kisses. More of those.”

“Easily done,” Aymeric hummed, leaning in and doing just that. They were sweet, slow kisses, though, and Aza found himself lingering in that pleasant boundary between sated and drowsy. Not that he’d actually fall asleep mid-kiss with Aymeric, but it was a pretty close thing.

“Aza…” Aymeric said against his mouth, before pulling away and kissing his forehead instead, “Go to sleep.”

“Mm…” Aza blinked up at him sleepily, “Y’sure?”

“Very,” Aymeric pulled away, and Aza grunted when he felt him pull at his breeches and underclothes, tugging them off his legs and discarding them somewhere out of view, “I’ll do the same in a moment.”

“Hmm…” Aza watched with hooded eyes as Aymeric slid off the bed before deciding to do as he was told. Lazily, he tugged at the bed covers, managing to somehow wriggle his way underneath them and curl up, making himself comfortable.

He must’ve dozed off, because what felt like only a few seconds later, he stirred awake when he felt the mattress dip and the bed covers lift, Aymeric easily sliding in behind him and curling around him. Aza flicked his tail, letting it rest comfortably over Aymeric’s leg.

“Sorry,” Aymeric murmured against his hair, his arm resting over his side, fingers tracing the lines of the scar Zenos gave him over his stomach, “Go back to sleep.”

“Mm…” Aza purred, settling down instantly. Distantly, he considered that if this was what a day of relaxation brought him, he should indulge more often.

A lot more often.

**Author's Note:**

> Well after that angsty oneshot I wanted to write something fluffy and smutty so here we are. 
> 
> Open to prompts and please kudos/comment if you liked!


End file.

Aymeric stirred awake when he felt something none-too-gently nudge his shin.

For a brief moment he hovered between sleep and wakefulness when the nudge came again – harder, enough to make him jolt – and he reluctantly opened his eyes to the darkness of his bedroom, hearing a soft, breathed out noise moan out next to him.

Aza.

He fully woke from his lingering doze. He became uncomfortably aware of the warm body curled tight against his side, trembling and tense, restlessly shifting about and accidentally kicking him in the shin a few times. He wished he could say it was from an exciting dream of the pleasant sort, but…

“Nnh… no, no…” Aza’s voice was weak and shuddering, barely above a drawn in breath… it was still enough to split his heart in two.

“Shh, everything’s fine…” Aymeric murmured, shifting so he was facing his partner a little more, carefully wrapping an arm around him. Aza twitched but didn’t stir, his breathing audibly stuttering in his throat. Aymeric gently curled his fingers into his light brown hair, tugging and stroking. He felt the brush of fur against his knuckles when Aza’s ears pinned back, so he carefully rubbed his thumb behind one of them.

“Everything’s fine,” he repeated in a low, tired rumble, slowly blinking the sleep out of his eyes as he felt Aza start to settle against him, “You’re safe. I’m here.”

He didn’t know if talking helped, but it made him feel a little less useless in these situations. Aza’s trembles started to die down at any rate, so he continued murmuring small little nothings, doggedly pushing back the exhaustion creeping back in. He didn’t think about how he had an early morning ahead of him, wading through another mentally draining session with both the House of Lords and the House of Commons, because Aymeric had perfected the art of being seemingly alert whilst fatigued beyond all reason. He would manage, if…

Aza gasped abruptly, a choked noise cut off, his entire body going taut as strung carbonwire. Aymeric carefully did not jolt in surprise or react, except to continue stroking his hair.

A pause. Then;

“Aymeric,” Aza’s voice was rough and muffled from where he pressed his face into his shoulder. His cheeks felt wet, “Sorry, have I…?”

“I was already awake,” Aymeric said, an old, oft repeated lie that Aza never believed but also never questioned.

Aza sniffed and went quiet, saying nothing for a very long moment. That was fine. Aymeric let his eyes slide shut, his hand dropping to curl his fingers against the nape of Aza’s neck. He did not ask about the dampness he could feel against his shoulder, about Aza’s unsteady, choked breathing, or how he clung to him tightly, as if expecting Aymeric to up and vanish. He already knew what it was Aza would have dreamed, and knew it would help nothing to force him to speak about it.

“I should be better than this,” Aza said thickly, pushing back slightly. Aymeric relaxed his hold, watching beneath his eyelashes as Aza pulled away enough to wipe at his face, his eyes flickers of metallic gold when they caught the moonlight seeping from between the drawn curtains, an enchantingly distracting sight.

Aymeric’s hand moved slightly, his thumb brushing along the line of Aza’s jaw, catching a wet trail.

“No one’s above crying,” he murmured, “It’s fine.”

Aza made a short, hiccoughing noise that sounded like it was meant to be a laugh, “I w-wouldn’t say _fine_.”

“Poor word choice,” Aymeric hummed, making sure his tone remained light. His hand slid lower, his thumb brushing down the column of Aza’s throat, feeling his Adam’s apple bob with a thick swallow, passing over where the pulse-point fluttered, rabbit-quick… “Aza, you know I won’t judge you.”

“I know,” Aza’s voice was quietly subdued, and he shifted slightly, his hand lightly resting on Aymeric’s side, just above his hip, “I know. I _know_ , but… I shouldn’t- I need to…”

Aza trailed off, his eyes downcast. Aymeric didn’t press, only waited, letting his hand slide back up so his fingers combed through his thick hair, thumb rubbing behind his ear in the way that always made him relax. This time was no exception, Aza’s body easing out of the taut coil of tension it had curled into.

This was always the difficult part. Aymeric had learned, through a lot of trial and error, how to wait these moments out, where Aza would waver over whether or not to close off to him. Even now, he still hadn’t managed to shake that ridiculous idea out of Aza’s head that he, honest to Halone, _did not care_ that he wasn’t the perfect Warrior of Light the Eorzean Alliance propaganda made him out to be. He wouldn’t have fallen in love with him if he had been perfect, anyways.

“Aza,” he prompted, gently, when the silence stretched between them.

Aza exhaled noisily, “It was… just a bad dream.”

Aymeric kept his tone light, “And what can I do to make it better?”

“You don’t need to-” Aza stopped, and even though the dark made it difficult to make out his expression, Aymeric could see the indecision that briefly crossed his face, “I’m already keeping you up.”

“I am keeping _myself_ up,” Aymeric pointed out, rather wryly. If he wanted to avoid dealing with this he could have very easily feigned sleep, thank you very much.

“But you have an early morning.”

“I have many early mornings, and I encounter each of them in a constant state of exhaustion,” Aymeric said with as much cheeriness as he could muster, “Staying awake now will not make a difference to me.”

It was bullshit. Aymeric knew that was bullshit, and Aza knew it was bullshit, and there was a moment where his partner stared at him, obviously very tempted to call him out on it.

He didn’t.

“If you’re sure…” Aza said slowly.

“I am,” Aymeric confirmed, already resigned to a morning of enduring Lucia’s armoured elbow digging into his ribs to keep him awake, “So…”

Aza huffed, and his drawn, pale expression eased into something a little lighter. It was a weak smile, but leagues better than before, “You don’t need to do anything to make it better.”

“Mm, I beg to differ…” Aymeric said, “Surely there’s something?”

“Well…” Aza’s smile became a littler surer, more like his usual self, “Since you’re so persistent, I guess there’s something.”

Aware he was being teased and loving every minute of it, Aymeric tried to look at curious as possible, “And…?”

“I want…” Aza’s voice dropped into a low purr, his hand on Aymeric’s side slowly sliding down, over the narrow curve of his hip, and back up again. He even leaned in, something Aymeric’s subconsciously mirrored.

“Mm…?” Aymeric prompted, his hand lowering to lightly curl his fingers against the nape of Aza’s neck, already thinking and planning that, if he wanted this, then he would…

“You…” They were nose-to-nose, lips almost touching when… abruptly Aza pulled away and sat up, patting Aymeric on the head, “To take a ride with me!”

Oh.

_Oh_ , that. Well. Alright then.

Aymeric let out the breath he’d been holding in a soft laugh, “A ride this late?”

“It’s very soothing for the soul,” Aza said cheerily.

While Aymeric was not zealously in love with Chocobos like most of his countrymen, he could understand that point of view. There was something deeply calming about riding in the wilderness without a clear destination in mind.

“Of course,” Aza continued, a hint of hesitation creeping into his tone, “If that’s too much, I understand.”

“It isn’t,” Aymeric said promptly, sitting up and mentally sending fond farewells to sleep altogether tonight. It was a well worth sacrifice, though, “In fact, it sounds like a fantastic idea.”

Lucia was going to be merciless, a part of him sighed, even if his foolishness was borne from love.

Even if his morning was going to be filled with agonisingly painful fatigued boredom and Lucia’s pointy, terrible elbows, it would be worth it for the brilliant smile that curled Aza’s mouth. It didn’t completely chase away the shadows in his eyes, but Aymeric would take it.  

“Thank you,” Aza said, softly and warm with an emotion that kindled Aymeric’s heart.

Yes, it was going to be _well_ worth it.

 

* * *

 

Aymeric, for the fifth time that morning, stifled a grunt when Lucia’s elbow drove into his side with the precision of an assassin slipping a knife into his ribs.

“Sir,” Lucia murmured whilst barely moving her lips, her stoic gaze not wavering from the lord currently occupying the floor, talking about… erm, something involving bread taxation, last Aymeric remembered, “Please stop dozing.”

“I was merely resting my eyes,” Aymeric returned, even as he fought off the yawn that threatened to overtake him. Experience borne from enduring many formal meetings and the like managed to help him stifle it, “For… five minutes.”

“It’s been twenty minutes, sir.”

Oh, that explained why the lord was discussing bridges. Aymeric had been struggling to find the logical leap from bread to that- actually, no, how would bread taxation move onto the state of the- nevermind.

“Hmm…” he settled for saying ambiguously instead, trying not to fidget like a schoolboy when Lucia shot him a look from the corner of her eye.

“…there was a question in regards to facilitating trade with the other Eorzean city-states, specifically food imports,” Lucia supplied after a few minutes of Aymeric sluggishly trying to follow the discussion.

“Ah, right.”

Another yawn threatened to overcome him, but he ruthlessly squashed it. By the Fury, this was painful, but, one must suffer for love sometimes, he supposed.

He recalled the lightness in Aza’s expression after the several hours they spent in the Coerthas Western Highlands, the way his eyes had been free from whatever darkness had touched him in the night, and decided that, yes, it was very well worth it, even now when facing the consequences of his actions.

Lucia once again elbowed him, knocking him out of his daydream of Aza’s lovely smile, and reluctantly he tuned back in with a sigh.

Worth it, keep telling yourself that.

**Author's Note:**

> It is up to your imagination what WoL dreamed but let's say it reminded him a lot of what happened to Haurchefant but with Aymeric in his place :) :) :) 
> 
> I'm always open to prompts and please comment/kudos if you liked!


End file.

There was a rumour about the Warrior of Light that said he was untouchable in battle.

It was a rumour that Aymeric once foolishly believed. Aza’s martial prowess was such that he appeared invincible, unflinchingly meeting every battle head on and walking away from it with a well-earned swagger. Vishap. Shiva. Ravanna. Bismark.The Grand Melee. Nidhogg. Thordon. Aza walked away from them all without even a hair out of place and the only way you knew he was even in battle at all was from the minor scuffs on his armour.

 _Untouchable_ , the rumours whispered, _Is he even mortal?_

But then Rhalgar’s Reach happened. Zenos happened. But before then the magic of the legend had waned with Aymeric, because.

Well.

Difficult to view Aza as untouchable once you had seen him naked.

 

* * *

 

“Hmm… and this one?”

Aymeric felt Aza shift against him, probably to look at where his fingers were lightly touching the scar running over the curve of his hip. It was thick and jagged, looking far too uneven to come from a blade. A beast, perhaps?

“Oh, that one… hmm,” Aza settled, and Aymeric felt his ear flick back in thought, tickling against his jawline, “Ah, right, it was Stone Vigil. Second time, with the dragon built like a brick shithouse.”

Aymeric snorted quietly at that, “So that’s why you were limping then.”

“It was a miracle I didn’t lose my leg, according to Crisp,” Aza’s tone was wry, and his calloused hand landed on Aymeric’s, coaxing it to rest over the firm plane of his stomach instead. “The damned thing clipped me with its tail and sent me flying across the room. Bluebird laughed herself sick because I looked so stupid.”

“You landed on your face, didn’t you?”

“Mhm,” Aza laughed quietly, his tail curling around Aymeric’s calf, “So you can add ‘broken nose’ to that too. And then, because clearly my day wasn’t bad enough, _another_ brick shithouse dragon came to join in on the fun and almost stepped on me.”

Aymeric winced in sympathy at the thought. He had only seen Aza in passing after the second Stone Vigil, and it had been when the both of them hovered in the realm between strangers and acquaintances, but he did vaguely recall Aza looking a little worn and scuffed.

“Luckily Crisp is a genius with White Magic,” Aza continued, “To be honest I think I’d be dead a thousand times over if it weren’t for her. Did I tell you about the time I was almost gored by a Behemoth?”

“About five times now,” Aymeric said, and he shifted his hand slightly to press against where he knew _that_ scar was – on Aza’s left side, where the horn had sheared through his armour and nearly split his side wide open. That was an injury survived only by sheer _luck_ , “and each time you tell it, it reminds me to send your healer friend a very generous fruit basket.”

“I know, it’s why she keeps telling me to tell you it. She loves the fruit baskets,” Aza said shamelessly, rubbing his thumb over Aymeric’s knuckles, “It almost makes me feel jealous. Where’s _mine_?”

“You tell me terrifying stories of how it’s a miracle you’ve survived to adulthood,” Aymeric said flatly, “You don’t deserve anything for that.”

“…that’s fair,” Aza sighed, and let out a quiet grunt as he stretched lazily. Aymeric closed his eyes and rested his cheek against the Miqo’te’s soft hair as he felt him press up against him before relaxing, “I forget most people don’t find the stories as funny as I do.”

“Perhaps not ‘funny’,” Aymeric murmured into Aza’s hair, “but definitely interesting.”

A pause.

“Though,” he continued with slow thoughtfulness, “it _does_ makes me wonder how those ‘untouchable’ rumours started, considering you’re in near constant danger of skewering yourself on your own sword.”

“Hey, I’m not that bad!” Aza huffed, “but yeah, I have no idea how that rumour happened. Crisp and Bluebird make it no secret that I’m a klutz on the battlefield.”

And wasn’t that an amazing fact to know about the Warrior of Light? Aza Lynel, martial genius and arguably this era’s most skilled and powerful warrior: a terrible klutz. It was as if the Twelve took one look at him and thought, hmm, perhaps a handicap is needed here.  

“Stories grow legs, as some say,” Aymeric said, “and you wear the post-battle dishevelment quite well. I remember you looking only _slightly_ sooty after the battle with Nidhogg, even if I’m fairly certain you were trampled underfoot at some point.”

“Oh, yeah, I think he did step on me a few times,” Aza said thoughtfully, as if having several tonnes of dragon crushing him into Ishgardian stonework wasn’t a fatal and unpleasant experience; “It only broke a few ribs.”

“Only.”

“Yup,” Aza’s voice was cheerful, “I mean, relatively speaking, a few broken ribs are nothing. I didn’t puncture a lung or rupture any important organs, and on the pain scale, ribs are about, what? A three out of ten?”

Aymeric, who had broken his ribs during his training as a Temple Knight and therefore knew how debilitating the pain could be, said rather carefully; “Seven, at the least.”

“Really?” Aza shifted in Aymeric’s arms, rolling over until they were practically nose to nose, “Seven? Seems a bit high.”

“Perhaps I’m a bit delicate when it comes to broken bones.”

“A bit delicate…” Aza smiled a little deviously, “Hmmm, sounds about right~ I mean, you were very theatrical when you were stabbed that one time.”

“ _Theatrical-_ ” Aymeric laughed at the unexpected jab, “It was a very serious gut wound, I’ll have you know.”

“Mhm, I’m sure it was,” Aza said teasingly, “I’m all aflutter thinking about it.”

“You jest now, but I distinctly recall how you threatened to eviscerate my attempted assassin and feed him his own entrails,” Aymeric said dryly, still to this day mildly disturbed by that threat, “You were more than ‘aflutter’ then.”

“I was prepared to go all Dark Knight then, not going to lie,” Aza said shamelessly, “but I felt like you’d be upset with me if I started dishing out that kind of justice.”

Upset would have been putting it very mildly, “Thank you for restraining your homicidal urges.”

“Hmm, it took a lot of effort,” Aza purred, trailing his fingers along Aymeric’s side then over his stomach, lingering over the thin, pale scar from his ‘assassination’, “but the fact you were ultimately alive and well, despite their attempts, was enough to calm me down.”

It did beg the question of how Aza would have reacted if the assassin’s aim had been sure and true, though. Aymeric recalled the Warrior of Light’s vicious fury when Haurchefant fell, that low, snarled out oath to tear Zephirin’s heart out of his chest with his bare hands. For someone with such deep compassion, his rage was a terrifying, dark thing at times.   

Aymeric forcibly pushed those thoughts aside, steering the conversation to less tense waters, “I’m sure venting on the Flame General during the Grand Melee helped out too.”

Aza’s smile became wicked at that, and the sight of it was enough to make something warm curl in Aymeric’s belly; “I can’t deny that. That fight sent a _lovely_ tingle up my thighs, as hard pressed as I was during it.”

“Should I be jealous?”

Aza laughed, “Of Raubahn? No need. He’s far too devoted to the Sultana for that kind of thing.”

Aymeric huffed in quiet amusement, “But if he wasn’t devoted to the Sultana…”

“Well, he still isn’t you, even if he does hit hard enough to make my bones rattle,” Aza said, leaning in to kiss him nice and sweet on the mouth, “Speaking of, we should make time to fight soon.”

Aymeric felt his interest pique at that. While Aza would soundly trounce him in any kind of spar, he had felt he’d been stagnating a little on the fighting front. Being one of the cogs of the Ishgardian Republic hadn’t left him much time to hone his skills beyond what they were, so getting thrashed in the training ring by Aza sounded more appealing than it should.

“I might be able to make some time for it,” he said, settling his hand on Aza’s hip and pulling him close, “depending on how… private you want it to be.”

“Private,” Aza repeated, his voice’s pitch dropping slightly, “Well, that sounds mighty tempting.”

“Or I can have it be a public spectacle,” Aymeric continued, playing up a flimsy veil of obliviousness, “Make a mini-Grand Melee to include the Ala Mhig-”

Aza cut him off with a kiss that was deep and heated, and when they parted, flushed and breathless, Aymeric promptly forgot what he was trying to say.

“Uh,” he said intelligibly.

“Private’s good,” Aza purred, taking advantage of his brief daze to firmly push him onto his back, his smaller frame pressing him down against the bed. Despite his lean musculature, Aza was terrifyingly strong. “We can even make a game of it. Winner gets to fuck the loser. How does that sound?”

“Good. Sounds good,” Aymeric said a little breathlessly, under no illusion as to who’d be the definite winner in that private spar. He could feel excitement curl tight and hot inside of him at the thought of it.

Aza studied him for a moment, his mouth curving into an amused smile, “In that case… are you available tomorrow night?”

Aymeric very quickly consulted his mental calendar. He was… “After ten,” he said reluctantly, “for the rest of this week too.”

“Ah,” Aza sighed in resignation, “And you need to be up early too?”

Aymeric’s response was a quietly displeased noise.

“Guess we’ll shelve that idea for one of our Namedays, then,” Aza said quickly, rapidly recovering from the disappointment of dashed plans, “Or later this month. Who knows, your workload may lessen once Ala Mhigo’s gotten itself sorted out.”

“The Republic has stabilised itself,” Aymeric admitted cautiously, not wanting to give Aza false hope. While not demanding as much work hours, bureaucratic work was more energy intensive than micro-managing the military might of Ishgard in a foreign city state. Temple Knights gracefully took orders – politicians debated and argued. Which was the point of democracy, of course, but it was still mentally exhausting to deal with on a day by day basis.  

Aza grimaced, “I sense a ‘but’ there.”

It was times like these that made Aymeric aware how limited their relationship was because of their respective duties. Perhaps things would be easier if Aymeric simply passed his job onto someone else and took up his childish dream of discovering the wonders of the wider world like an adventurer, but he couldn’t bring himself to do that when Ishgard needed him still. Its Republic was still in its infancy and to leave now would jeopardise that.  He wouldn’t risk that, not even for Aza.

However…

“Next week,” Aymeric promised, because while he cannot leave Ishgard for Aza, he could certainly compromise, “We will have a day to ourselves.”

Aza blinked, obviously surprised, before smiling with hesitant hope, “Oh? A whole day?”

“A whole day,” he confirmed, already calculating what favours to pull and who to delegate to achieve this near impossible thing. He will pay for it, he knew but… one day. He could give Aza that much at the very least, “So, try not to get lost in the wilderness then.”

“That only happened once!” But Aza was smiling brilliantly, clearly too pleased to even pretend the slightest bit of huffiness, “I’ll be there, Aymeric. Not even Shinryu reborn will keep me away.”

Oof. He hoped he didn’t just jinx them with that.

“Don’t tempt fate,” Aymeric murmured, reaching up to curl his hand against the nape of Aza’s neck.

“Too late,” Aza chuckled, leaning in and trailing a hand down along his side, fingernails lightly dragging over the thin scar on his stomach, “If anything happens, I’ll see how Arenvald does as my understudy.”

And whatever further comments Aymeric may have had on that were soundly cut off by Aza kissing him, deep and hungry, until they both parted utterly breathless. Quite frankly, he forgot what they’d been talking about after that.

“Mm,” Aza pulled back, his eyes dark and heavy-lidded as he openly admired whatever face he was making; most likely kissed witless, as that was how he felt, “How early do you need to get up tomorrow?”

“Before dawn,” Aymeric murmured huskily, tilting his head back a fraction when Aza’s lips brushed over the curve of his jaw, then down to his throat, a slight graze of teeth… “A m-meeting first thing…”

Aza made a small humming noise of acknowledgement, pressing a kiss to his fluttering pulse-point, “With the Eorzean Alliance?” Aza didn’t wait for a response as he continued, “Hm, probably shouldn’t leave a mark, then…”

Aymeric curled his fingers into Aza’s soft hair, feeling his heart skip several beats at the thought of… it wasn’t as if the others were _blind_ , after all. It wouldn’t have been the first time he stumbled into a meeting with dark, blossoming marks lingering at the collar of his armour, and while their relationship wasn’t officially recognised, it was considered the worst kept secret in the entirety of Eorzea.

“It should be fine,” he said – only to draw in a sharp breath when Aza instantly acted on his consent. Miqo’te canines, he had discovered very early on in their relationship, were surprisingly sharp, but there was something about feeling them graze over his throat that made his pulse race with excitement. It helped that Aza knew _just_ about the right pressure to use, how to hover that line of pleasure-pain expertly and…

“Mmrrr… there…” Aza purred, sounding incredibly pleased with himself. He pushed up suddenly, catching Aymeric’s mouth in a firm yet quick kiss, pulling away before Aymeric could fully enjoy it, “Bed time, I think.”

Aymeric let out a frustrated groan before he could stop himself, “Aza, you…”

“Tease, I know~” he sing-songed, looking entirely unrepentant as he smiled down at him, “But if I don’t stop now, you’ll definitely regret it in the morning.”

Unfortunately, Aza was right. They had already been pushing it, conversing this late into the night with one another – and it wasn’t as if they had been chaste before then either. He let his fingers uncurl from Aza’s hair, sliding them down to rest against his nape, pulling him downwards. Aza obliged him, letting him lead them into a slow kiss.

“Nn, don’t try to tempt me…” Aza murmured against his mouth, not pulling away despite his words, “Tryin’ t’be, mm… responsible…”

“Mmhm…”

“Aymeric…” Aza groaned, nipping his bottom lip before gathering up his willpower to move back. His eyes were dark, cheeks lightly flushed and lips plump and kiss-reddened – an enticing sight, one that Aymeric reluctantly resisted. “And people say Miqo’te are the lusty ones.”

“You are lusty,” Aymeric said roughly, settling back against the bed and letting his hand trail up enough to lightly rub Aza behind his ears, watching as his eyes briefly fluttered shut from pleasure, “But my apologies… you’re simply irresistible.”

“I have no idea how you can say such things with such a straight face…” Aza muttered, looking a little pink now and not just from Aymeric’s pampering, “I’m just some ol’ scarred Miqo’te. Not perfection incarnate like you.”

There was so much Aymeric wanted to say in response to that. Aza was incredibly handsome, despite his protests to the contrary, and while his body was littered with scars old and new, they were a sign of his relentless determination that made him into the man he was today. If people thought that to be a turn-off, then it was their loss and Aymeric’s gain, quite frankly.

“I can lie here and wax poetics about your beauty,” Aymeric said blithely, unable to hide his smile at Aza’s embarrassed expression, “But I think it would take as much time as us coupling. So…”

“Hah, nice try,” Aza flicked his forehead playfully, “Please don’t wax poetics. I think I would just roll over and die from sheer mortification.”

“Hmm…” Aymeric looked up at him mischievously, but held his tongue when his partner frowned at him warningly, “As you wish,” he demurred.

Aza sniffed suspiciously, but leaned down to give him a chaste kiss, “Good. Now then, sleep.”

Aymeric sighed as the passionate moment passed, half-curling into Aza when he settled against his side. He found his hand lightly trailing over the scar on his hip – the ‘brick shithouse dragon’ one, as Aza called it – mapping it out with his fingers. Untouchable, people called him, but Aymeric definitely preferred it like this. Untouchable implied a type of inhumanness, which settled wrongly with him.

“I can hear you thinking…” Aza mumbled into his shoulder, “Turn your brain off.”

“My apologies,” Aymeric pressed the flat of his palm against his hip, “I was just thinking how I liked your scars.”

Aza’s embarrassment was palpable, but Aymeric could feel his smile as he nuzzled into his shoulder, his hand lightly swatting his side, “You’re such a sap.”

“Hrm…” Aymeric closed his eyes, letting himself drift into a sleep.

Yes, he most definitely preferred this.  

**Author's Note:**

> This is so incredibly self-indulgent but hey, sometimes you just need to write ridiculously romantic stuff. Once again open to prompts and the like, though I have some ideas after the recent patch (I may even, gasp, write ANGST!). PWP is still in the works, but lord I am rusty when it comes to that stuff. 
> 
> Thanks to everyone who's been following this series so far! Your likes and comments make my day!
> 
> Please comment and kudos if you liked!


End file.

“Ivant! Hey, Ivant!

The young knight in question looked up from his dull tasking of armour polishing at the sound of his name, squinting as one of his fellows rushed through the armoury in mad excitement. He carefully set down the helmet he’d been working on as the knight skidded to a stop in front of him, barely avoiding tripping over his own feet in the process.

“Have you heard? Have you heard?” The knight gasped, and this close Ivant recognised him as Panoux, a childhood friend of his that joined him in Dragonhead about a month back, “The Lord Commander’s reinforcements have arrived!”

Ivant stared at him for a long moment, “And this calls for running around yelling like a madman because…?”

“It’s the bloody Warrior of Light!” Panoux burst, his expression bright with hero worship, “In the flesh! Here! Physically!”

Oh dear.

Ivant picked up the helmet and resumed rubbing it down with his oil cloth, “Here physically, but not to be spoken to,” he reminded his friend, “I think he has better things to do than enduring your one-sided crush.”

“It’s not a crush!” Panoux flustered, his pale cheeks turning a bright shade of pink. Ivant didn’t bother dignifying that obvious lie with a response, “It’s _admiration_. Did you know he defeated Nidhogg practically single-handedly?”

“ _Yes_ , Panoux, and so does every other person in Ishgard,” Ivant rolled his eyes so hard it was a miracle they didn’t spin out of his skull, “He’s also killed several Primals, destroyed many a castrum, become king of some foreign land, liberated two countries almost simultaneously and exposed a thousand-year-old conspiracy. I _know_.”

“To think we have a living legend like that here!” Panoux sighed dreamily.

Ivant really had better things to do than listen to Panoux wax poetic about the bloody Warrior of Light for the umpteenth time. The first three had been cute, but now it was bordering on grating. Yes, sure, the Ser Aza was amazing and, according to rumours, drop-dead gorgeous for a Miqo’te, but Ivant could only take so much of ‘Warrior of Light this’ and ‘Warrior of Light that’ before he wanted to brain himself with his own helmet.

“He won’t be here long, if he’s the reinforcements the Lord Commander sent,” Ivant pointed out, secretly relieved about that. Ser Aza didn’t visit Dragonhead Camp all that often because of… scandalous reasons the old guard were leery of giving out details on, so he was certain that he was stopping over for as long as his task required. “No doubt he’d be sent onwards to deal with the Behemoths by nightfall.”

“Oh, yes, the mating night…” Panoux’s excitement wilted slightly at that, “I had forgotten.”

“If you’re lucky, you might get put on the escort,” Ivant said, feeling a little guilty at seeing his friend look so downcast, “With him around, you wouldn’t have to worry about doing any work or getting killed.”

Not that that would happen. The task of handling the Behemoth’s mating night only went towards the most experienced and battle-hardened knights. It wasn’t to fight the damned things, no, that would be the height of foolishness, but a steady nerve and good instincts were required to observe the entire event in case the Behemoths ended up stampeding towards civilisation. By nightfall all of the camps and villages would be locked up tighter than a priest’s chastity belt as they waited it out and usually it passed by without incident.

Except this year the Behemoths were gathering far too close to Whitebrim for comfort. Knights had been sent from the Holy See to bolster the walls, in case worse came to worse, but for the Lord Commander to send the Warrior of Light himself… either he was being overly cautious or the situation was more dire than initially led to believe.

“Hm…” Panoux looked thoughtful, “That is true. If I… well,” he smiled sheepishly, “We’ll see. Are you almost finished here, Ivant?”

“Almost,” he confirmed, “Just a few more suits left.”

“Done by nightfall?”

Ivant gave him a look, clearly knowing what he was angling for, but humoured him as he said, “Yes.”

“Excellent! Well, I’ll leave you to it, then,” Panoux lifted his hand in farewell, “Prepare for tonight!”

“It’s not going to happen!” he yelled after his friend’s retreating back, shaking his head with a quiet snort. Honestly, Panoux needed to spend more time looking at reality than chasing after dreams. There was no way two greenhorn knights were going to be sent alongside the Warrior of Light to deal with a group of rutting Behemoths.

Secure in that knowledge, he returned to polishing up the metal beneath his hands, already planning how to spend his time during the lockdown that night. Sitting in his cot bed reading a nice book sounded nice.

 

* * *

 

Ivant was going to fucking _murder_ Panoux with his bare hands.

“I hate you,” he hissed at his friend, who was radiating smugness from behind his helmet with such intensity he wanted to throttle him, “Hate you _so much_.”

“You said it yourself, we won’t have to do anything but watch,” Panoux hummed, almost bouncing on his toes but just holding back. They were waiting to be briefed by Ser Emmanellain in the war room – a fancy name for what was essentially a glorified stone box-room with a bird’s eye view map on a squat table. So far there had been no sign of the legendary Warrior of Light, but Ivant supposed he was already off riding into battle against the Behemoths on the back of Midgardsormr or something ridiculous like that.

“Yes, because sitting in the freezing snow watching Behemoths fuck sounds like an amazing way to spend my night,” Ivant grouched, genuinely irritated. He didn’t _want_ to risk his life sitting out there in the cold. He had an off-night. An off-night! Those were rare as golddust! “You owe me, wanker.”

Panoux flapped his hand dismissively, and Ivant was about to punch him in the ribs when the door to the war room opened up. All the knights congregated in the room instantly smartened to attention.

Ser Emmanellain walked in, his manservant hot on his heels and… oh…

A Miqo’te of short stature swaggered in. There was no other way to describe it. Everything about him commanded immediate attention, and Ivant couldn’t help but stare as the man’s yellow, dragon-like eyes scanned over the gathered knights with an unreadable expression. It was, admittedly, the first time Ivant had ever seen a Miqo’te up close, and he found himself staring at the man’s ears. They flicked back and forth, as if listening for something, and it was incredibly distracting.

Panoux made a quiet, high-pitched noise like his soul had just left his body. Ivant discreetly trod on his foot.

“Alright men,” Ser Emmanellain said, standing before them with a smile that aimed for confident but looked strained instead. Ivant had heard rumours that he had been under incredible pressure recently to keep up with the legacy of Ser Haurchefant, and it was beginning to show. “We have been gifted with a reliable ally for our duties tonight. I’m sure all of you are familiar with Ser Aza?”

Everyone’s eyes fixed onto the Miqo’te. Ivant could see some of the old guard – those that directly served Ser Haurchefant – give Ser Aza a respectful nod. Ser Aza just waved his hand in a shockingly casual greeting, his mouth curving into an attractively boyish smile. He looked like he was expecting to go for a nice stroll out in the snow, rather than potentially doing battle with horny, angry Behemoths.

“Good,” Ser Emmanellain cleared his throat, moving over to the map. Everyone moved to crowd round it, though Ivant noticed that Aza stayed by the door, staring off into space as he obviously tuned out of the briefing. He felt himself sniff disapprovingly at that.

But he didn’t allow himself to linger on it too long. He was drawn into the curtly but efficiently delivered briefing with a sharp ear. It seemed this squad of ten knights was a mixture of experience – Ser Aza’s presence meant that Ser Emmanellain felt comfortable in using this as a way to give the younger knights a sample of how to manage the mating night, instead of it being delegated to the same group over and over until they aged out or died.

“We will be leaving just before sundown, which is in approximately forty minutes,” Ser Emmanellain concluded, “Don’t be late. Dismissed.”

The knights drew themselves up to attention, and began filtering out of the room. The Warrior of Light, at some point during the briefing, had taken a casual lounging position against the wall next to the door. Ivant found himself staring as they approached, amazed at how _short_ the man was. When he thought God-slayer, he imagined a mountain of a man, but no. He was like a Belah’dian Jennet – small, compact and stocky – and barely reached the same height as an Elezen tween.

He accidentally made eye-contact just before he reached the door, and he felt the hairs on the back of his neck prick up as the Miqo’te looked him over slowly. It was like having a dragon stare him down, trying to consider whether he was worth the effort of eating or not, and Ivant struggled to swallow.

After a long, frozen second, Ser Aza looked away dismissively.

Ivant practically escaped the room, letting out the breath he’d been holding shakily. His heart was thumping against his ribs and he felt annoyed towards himself. He only just _walked past the man_ and he was acting as if he just survived a knife-fight in the Brume! But there was… an intimidating aura about him. He couldn’t explain it. It was as if some deep, animal instinct in him recognised a greater predator and instantly wanted to burrow its way through the earth and away.

“By the Fury…” Panoux’s awe-filled voice filtered through Ivant’s daze, “I just walked past the Warrior of Light.”

Oh, blessed Halone. “Can you be anymore pathetic?” Ivant said snippily, quickly burying his lingering anxiety as he levelled a flat stare at his friend. 

“Say what you will, Sourpuss,” Panoux practically sang, “It’s not going to bother me.”

Ivant rolled his eyes, even if it was hidden behind his helmet, and tried his best to bury his misgivings. With a warrior like Ser Aza at their side, this outing should be as dull as a patrol between the Observatorium and Dragonhead. With any luck he’d be back in his cot by midnight, snoring away.

 

* * *

 

 

He needed to stop tempting fate.

 

* * *

 

 

“Halone grant me strength,” Ivant whispered under his frozen breath, half-buried under a snowdrift as a Behemoth lumbered literal yalms away from him. His body shivered despite his efforts, the quiet clattering of his armour knocking together making him clench his jaw from sheer stress. The beast, huge and bulging with scarred muscle, snuffled the ground with its maw slightly open, baring its stained, large fangs that were longer and thicker than his damned _arms_.

He had no idea where the other two of his little section were. Panoux had been close to where the Behemoth was currently sniffing, but judging by the lack of screaming and crunching, hadn’t been found yet. He fervently prayed that that remained the case, even if it meant the Behemoth ambling in his direction. His friend was an idiot with an equally stupid crush, but he’d rather endure an eternity listening to him ramble Warrior of Light trivia if it meant he lived through this night.

The Behemoth let out a low, throaty noise, a rumble that practically vibrated through Ivant’s ribcage. He buried himself even deeper into the snow, trying to calm his short, frightened breaths as the beast’s head swung slowly from side to side, as if searching, its thick, matted mane swaying. Ivant could almost feel the ground shudder when the Behemoth prowled forwards, its massive paws sinking through the snow as it slowly, slowly, slowly, moved towards him, nostrils flaring.

Despairingly, Ivant realised too soon that the Behemoth was _downwind of him_.

He daren’t move. He remembered in the briefing – if you think you’ve been spotted by the Behemoth. Don’t. Move. Don’t even twitch. It might smell you, but its vision was actually quite poor, especially in the dark, snowy weather like this. Sometimes it was best to risk being stepped on than to bolt and be snapped up in those powerful jaws. He told himself this over and over, even if his body quivered with the panicked need to run. Don’t run. Don’t run. Hold. Hold. Hold.

The Behemoth drew closer, its breath misting the air in great, heavy pants. Ivant desperately wanted the ground to swallow him up right now.

Closer.

The Behemoth was close enough that he could smell its carrion breath, that each heavy footfall sent a tremor through his body. He lowered his gaze to the snow right in front of his frozen nose, clenching his numb, gloved fingers tight as he prayed and prayed and prayed, hating how Panoux so readily volunteered them to observe this area, despairing how he was such a _blind idiot_ that he didn’t spot the prone form of the Behemoth until they all but tripped over its bulk, hoping that he and Panoux survived this so he could _murder his friend for-_

Hot, stinking breaths washed over him. Ivant barely swallowed a terrified whimper.

He daren’t look up, even when he could hear the Behemoth draw deep, forceful breaths directly above him, even when a paw, heavy and clawed, landed mere ilms from him. The Behemoth knew he was here, he thought a tad hysterically. Would it start digging into the snow to find him, and rip him apart in the process? Or would it nose the ground and swallow him up in one go? Or would it simply step on him, crushing him in the process. What a letter for his poor mother to receive: stepped on by Behemoth because he was a moron. Halone would laugh when he stepped into her halls.

A rumble like thunder sounded above him, practically deafening him. Ivant squeezed his eyes tightly shut, offered one last prayer-

A chocobo suddenly ‘kweh’d.

The Behemoth stilled – then moved. To the left. Its muscled chest looming over him as the ‘kweh’ sounded out again; Ivant detachedly recognised it as a challenging cry. A chocobo. Challenging a Behemoth. If Ivant wasn’t certain that he was hallucinating from sheer terrified stress he would have burst into sobbing laughter.

“Now, now, Rations, don’t antagonise the poor thing.”

Ser Aza.

Ivant _did_ lift his head then, by a mere fraction, enough for him to peer through his snowdrift cover to see – well, for one, the lowered head of a Behemoth only ilms away from him, which would be an image to chase him in his nightmares for weeks to come. But several fulms away two silhouettes stood – one Chocobo, one man-shaped. They stood fearlessly, utterly unconcerned about the beast staring them down.

Ser Aza was a fucking madman, he thought faintly.

“Are you hungry, lil’ Behemoth?” Ser Aza called, his voice gaining a taunting lilt. It was a provocative tone, one that made the Behemoth snarl, “Not good enough to join in on the fucking, so you’re digging about for food like some herbivore, huh?”

 _Fucking crazy_.

The Behemoth slammed its paws on the ground, making Ivant jump, and let out a bellowing roar so loud his ears rang. Ivant was also fairly sure he peed himself a little, just a bit, his fingers unconsciously scrambling at the snow beneath him as if it was possible to just tunnel his way to safety.

Past the high-pitched ringing in his ears, pas the throaty, guttural growls of an infuriated Behemoth, Ivant could hear Ser Aza laughing. _Laughing_. Like this was the most glorious time of his life and loving every minute of it.

“Yeah, that’s it. C’mon,” Ser Aza’s voice gained a- an edge. Almost crazed, panting, and even in the darkness, even from this distance, his yellow eyes were bright with a frenzy that brought Ivant terrible memories of dark-scaled dragons slithering over the broken bridge, crushing knights underfoot and baring their fangs, always hungry, hungry, _hungry_ ; “ _C’mon_. Fight me. Fight me! _FIGHT ME!”_

The Behemoth answered Ser Aza’s roar with a snarl, lunging forwards with such force that it almost made Ivant roll a little. He managed to stay in place, staring open-mouthed as the Behemoth smashed down on Ser Aza’s position, a cloud of snow being thrown up to the backdrop of a Chocobo warking angrily. In the darkness, past the falling snow, Ivant couldn’t see _shit_ , except the Behemoth twisting and lunging and lashing out, moving further and further away as Ser Aza’s crazed laughter egged it on.

Insane. Crazy. Madman.

Ivant crawled like his life depended on it – _because it did_ – away from the furious fighting and over to where he last saw Panoux. Here, sticking out of the snow, was a thorny bramble patch half-trodden on by the Behemoth. It was there that Ivant found Panoux cowering, staring with a mix of admiration and fear and smelling a little like urine. Considering he looked like he’d been half an ilm from being stepped on, Ivant decided to say nothing of it.

“Halone have mercy, Halone have mercy…” Panoux was muttering, barely acknowledging Ivant’s presence, “I was almost… almost…”

“Panoux,” Ivant gripped his friend’s shoulder, trying to squeeze despite the armour, “You live. You _live_. Just stay down while… while Ser Aza…”

They both stared over at the writhing shapes in the close distance. That massive greatsword the Warrior of Light lumbered around flashed and flared with an eerie, red and purple light, leaving fading streaks long after its swings. The air felt charged with something that made Ivant’s skin prickle uncomfortably, the shadows twisting and dancing under some malevolent influence. Whatever power Ser Aza wrought, it was not one that he thought the Warrior of _Light_ would possess.

Then – there was a death cry. A wet, heavy gurgle of a beast and a massive discharge of aether that had then ducking deep into the brambles, thorns biting deep as clumps of dirt and snow rained down on them. The ground shuddered as something heavy dropped against it, and afterwards there was… silence.

Eerie silence.

Panoux was breathing hard and fast next to him, shuddering like a leave, “Halone have mercy, Halone have mercy, Halone…”

Ivant, pushed so far beyond fear that he had entered some sort of tranquil state of numbness, pushed himself up onto his knees.

The Behemoth was dead. It was sprawled clumsily on the ground in death, the snow around it blasted clear away by several fulms. The snow that _wasn’t_ blasted into the aether was streaked with dark stains, splattered in graceful, thin lines. He couldn’t see what exactly killed the beast, but Ser Aza…

Ser Aza stood at the Behemoth’s head covered almost head to toe with blood. His sword was embedded into the ground, his hand gripping its hilt but not using it as a prop as he stared down at his foe with bright, yellow eyes. He looked like something out of the tales of Nidhogg – where many a story detailed how the dragon would hide itself in the form of a man and become devastation incarnate, fighting like a monster and a vengeful God both. Ivant barely restrained himself from making a warding gesture, terrified more of the man before him than the Behemoth he had just slain.

Ser Aza looked up – at him.

Then, he hefted his blade out of the ground and swung it over his shoulder, resting it there as he casually ambled over. Something shifted behind him, and Ivant realised it was his Chocobo, that had somehow miraculously survived the battle.

“You alright?” Ser Aza asked, his previous madness utterly gone as he stopped in front of them, peering down as if they were particularly interesting insects he had found under a rock, “Any injuries?”

“N-None…” Ivant said, frozen in place. Panoux was still praying to Halone next to him, “We’re… fi- oh.”

Wait, no, the third man. Feeling shame puncture his numb horror, he looked around for the missing third knight.

Ser Aza’s gaze slid to the right, where the brambles covered the lip of a cliff. It was a short, but sharp drop, and with a sinking feeling in his stomach, Ivant remembered that the third knight had bolted in that direction when the Behemoth first reared up. He may have…

“Hmm…” Ser Aza plodded over, walking through the brambles like they didn’t exist, up until the edge of the cliff, and leaned over, “Oh dear.”

Ivant closed his eyes. Dead, then.

“Least it was quick,” Ser Aza continued, as if hearing Ivant’s thoughts. He probably could. At this point mind-reading wouldn’t be unbelievable as one of the Warrior of Light’s terrifying skills. “There’re many who have had dirtier deaths.”

And were you the one who gave it to them? Ivant thought, not daring to move when Ser Aza walked away from the cliff and back towards him.

The Miqo’te’s head was tilted, like a curious predator, his ears flicked forwards and his yellow eyes intent. Ivant met the stare as evenly as he could, his hand dropping onto Panoux’s shoulder. His friend had gone quiet, but he could feel him breathing beneath his palm.

“Perhaps you should take your friend back to the main force. The other Behemoths have been taken care of,” Ser Aza said, looking down on him with his back to the moon hanging high in the sky. It cast his face in deep shadow, his yellow eyes glinting. Dark-scaled dragon. The bridge. Bright, malicious yellow eyes. Ivant fought back trembles as the memories threatened to clamber forwards.  

“What of…” Ivant croaked, unable to look away.

“I’ll take care of it.”

And that was that, apparently. With a grunt, Ser Aza slipped the sword off his shoulder and behind his back entirely, the noise of magnetic locks activating cutting through the eerie silence. Ivant watched his every move, watched as Ser Aza walked back to the Behemoth, patting his Chocobo on the beak as he passed. The affectionate gesture struck him viscerally, though he couldn’t say why. It looked wrong.

What the hell are you? Ivant wanted to ask. What was that madness that gripped you? What kind of Warrior of Light fought like a savage beast?

Ivant forced himself to look away instead, deciding that he didn’t want to know the answers to those questions. He gripped Panoux and painfully pulled him over his shoulder in a knight’s carry, unable to spare even a brief second of annoyance at his friend fainting from fear. If anything, he had the right of it. Ivant wished… wished he could purge this night from his memory.

He turned his back on Ser Aza and began the slow, arduous task of carrying him back to the main group. Every instinct he possessed screamed at him for looking away from such a big predator, but he forced it down.

Behind him, Ser Aza laughed, light and carefree. Somehow, it was more terrifying than his maddened one.

 

* * *

 

“Goodness me, Emmanellain,” Aza sighed, “You sure are a taskmaster.”

Emmanellain ran his hand through his sweaty hair with a stuttering laugh, looking very much like he’d just done another round of the Grand Melee. He was bloody and scuffed and bruised, but he looked proud and satisfied despite his exhaustion, “ _I’m_ the taskmaster? You’re the one who decided to go toe-to-toe with several Behemoths in one night!”

“Just the runts,” Aza said dismissively, “Some of your knights stumbled over a few. I think I scarred two of them for life.”

Emmanellain let out a heavy exhale, puffing his fringe out of his eyes in a very unnoble like manner, “I think you have scarred _me_. Never would I have thought you could swing that blade of yours hard enough to crack a Behemoth’s skull.”

Aza’s mouth curved into a grin, “Well, it’s all about how you use it…”

Emmanellain turned away from him, unable to hide a smile, “Are you staying for the clean-up? There’s a hot meal and a warm bed waiting for you if you want it.”

It was an invitation Emmanellain gave out each time Aza came through Dragonhead. It was one he always refused. It was still offered though, to the point where it became a morbid little joke between them. Aza smiled wearily.

“Sorry, but I should report my success to Aymeric,” he said, “Maybe next time.”

Emmanellain nodded, then looked back, “Thank you, for your help. I… I’m aware that Haurchefant would have…”

“Haurchefant would’ve done many other things,” Aza said gently, “But you’re not him, so you need to do what _you_ will do.”

“Yes, of course,” Emmanellain ran his hand through his hair again, shaking it out, “Well, then, this is farewell then. Um, give my thanks to the Lord Commander – Chancellor.”

“Sure,” Aza said easily, “It’s been nice to catch up with you.”

He untangled himself from the rest of the patrol after that. They were close to the bridge that led to the Holy See, and while the rest of them continued back to Dragonhead, carrying the body of that one unfortunate knight, Aza turned towards the bridge, Rations a faithful shadow.

“I’m gonna drown myself in that bath when we get back,” Aza muttered, the scent of blood thick in the back of his throat. The excitement of a hunt, of winning against something as powerful and overbearing as a Behemoth, was ebbing into a bone-deep tiredness. It had been exhausting fighting so many so consecutively, but it was a pleasant burn all the same.

He smiled to himself, remembering the last one. Standing defiant in front of that Behemoth, roaring back at it, meeting each bone-crushing blow with his own strength… so heady. There was nothing like meeting the raw, indomitable power of a Behemoth and crushing it underfoot. It was a shame most people couldn’t share in that feeling, though – which, strange, because surely a Behemoth isn’t that far beyond a warrior’s skill?

As he approached the gates, the guards there recognised him and waved him through, their masks hiding their stares from view. Aza waved to them, because it was polite, and stepped through the gates and towards Ishgard.

What a fun night it has been. If he was around for next year’s, he should ask if he could participate again.

 

**Author's Note:**

> This was something I just wanted to try out, with a background NPC's observations on what it's like to actually witness WoL in action. It's probably pretty terrifying, and the Drk/War quests imply that WoL fights like a beast or like a madman (if I recall, in one drk quest you butcher qiqirns so badly the crates you recovered from them were covered in gore). Since plenty of people see you fight, I'm guessing it puts the fear of God into whoever witnesses that kind of craziness.


End file.


The trick of building up a fire was second nature now, and standing in front of it was as blissful as moving away was torturous. He quickly dived at his narrow cot, snatching blankets up with shaking fingers and tugging them around his shoulders.

It was much better when you could share your blankets with someone else, but his dearest friend had pressing business elsewhere. She almost always did - that made their times together even more precious. She came back to him with the dust of far-off places on her boots and the sound of foreign winds in her words, the sunlight that had long left Coerthas in her hair. He couldn’t abandon his duties – _wouldn’t_ – but in her presence he could almost feel the sun again.

He was in desperate need of that searing warmth tonight. Cold isolation shadowed him more often than not; it curled its tendrils into him if he let his guard down, and how could he encourage his loyal men and women when he felt so lost himself? No, he could not – would not – permit it to take hold.

He let himself dwell on the last time she had stayed, summoning his memories to defy the snow hurling itself outside, gathering them like his blankets.

The flashes of her skin that revealed themselves to him: dark and rich like the earth, full of life, cool beneath his lips but quick to flush hot beneath his touch.

The way her hair brushed against him when she leaned in to drink from the mug of cocoa they were sharing. The satisfied sigh after she took a drink as though it was the most precious thing in the world; beyond her ability to express.

How she could smile so sweetly and whisper both endearments and lewd suggestions in the same voice…

Her voice. He couldn’t imagine that. He knew how she sounded, of course, but the wind was getting steadily louder and he couldn’t shut out the mournful noise. His homeland began to intrude, and again he was-

A lonely man, in a room by himself that was little better than a cell. The fire had warmed the air a trifle but he felt colder than ever.

There was nothing for it but to go to sleep and hope that tomorrow would improve his mood, or at least bring new distractions to mask it. He couldn’t stop his tiny hisses of breath as he changed into his nightclothes – the cold was insidious no matter how quickly he undressed. He made to remove his linkpearl, but hesitated. It was still early in the evening. Perhaps he could call the Warrior before she turned in for the night?

Haurchefant prided himself on his forbearance. He usually coped well with her absence, but tonight the chill had been in his heart for too long. He needed to hear her voice.


	2. Chapter 2

Small though Haurchefant’s room might be, it was at least blissfully private; his rank spared him the cramped dormitories used by the other knights. There was no one to see his smile, no one to mark the blush spreading across his cheeks at hearing his Warrior speak. Fury, even his _ears_ felt hot.

“No, nothing’s wrong! I know, I know, we always seem to save the linkpearls for some new disaster – which is frankly a _waste_ , now I think about it. I wanted to speak to you. I…I miss you.”

It still felt embarrassing to admit it out loud, as though they had never seen each other at their bleakest moments, as though he had never seen her bleed and she had never seen him cry. It was often easier to show how he felt without words instead: with his hands, with soft gasps and softer kisses. But tonight, words were all he had to give. He was going to make them count.

“I can’t believe it’s only been one moon since I last saw you. The moon’s hiding from us, here. It’s bitter outside and I’ve been thinking how wonderful it would be to have you share my blankets again.”

There. He’d said it aloud. He could hear a soft sigh over the connection, and perhaps the rustle of fabric. He continued, dropping his voice a fraction. It helped to disguise his nerves at saying such things aloud.

“I love that first moment when we’re trying to warm up, holding tight and sharing as much of ourselves as we can. You press yourself to me so beautifully…” He was tracing his finger in circles on his wrist, remembering the way she liked to hold his arms in place. He’d get pinned while she worked on sucking marks into his neck, breaking off every now and then to savour the noises he was making. He felt a low pulse of arousal in his stomach and shivered.

_Left to his own devices after meeting the Warrior for the first time, he sometimes imagined he could feel the lines of tension between them. He knew right away that she was special; unlike anyone else he’d met – and not because she was a Scion, not because of her victories. Something else. Something fundamental about her._

_He’d basked in her radiance whenever he could,_ _trying to convince himself – sometimes successfully – that he was building castles out of nothing_ _._ _That there was no point in pursuing this._ _Then there were the times he’d caught her watching after him, saw his own heart shining from her eyes. The pull between them was easy to ignore while her business took her elsewhere but, ah… when he knew she was in Dragonhead it was a flowing river of need between them. He was sure that in the right light he could see it, could place his hands upon it and understand what solid longing felt like. When they were in the same room he wondered how no one else could sense it snapping taut between them, how no one changed their own path to avoid crossing something so palpable._

_They gradually grew closer still: hands brushing against each other across papers, weapons clashing in sparring matches, and the force between them threatened to consume everything in its path; steel melting and plans scorching, curling away to leave nothing but searing heat. With his heart aflame for so long, it hardly felt like burning at all when she first took him to her chambers._

_They hadn’t spoken much. All the important things between them were beyond words – until she’d clambered atop his body and started to take his length inside her. His voice had broken then, babbling praise and sweet promises that would have humiliated him at any other time, were making him blush even then, until she_ _started responding_ _in kind…_

“My dearest friend. I hope you’re somewhere safe and warm tonight, and I hope you’re somewhere private. I’m trying to imagine the sort of place you’re staying in tonight – you know my quarters like the back of your hand – but it’s much more fun to imagine you, my heart. The way your hair curls out behind you when you lie down. How your shoulder peeps out from your night clothes. How you smile when I rub it, before I move my hands further, into your shirt..you press your chest into me when I do, did you know that? Like an invitation.”

He paused here, to move into a more comfortable position, and it was so gratifying to hear a tense silence over the pearl. A waiting silence.

“Are you lying down for me? Are you getting yourself ready for me, my dearest? I can almost see it, the way your nipples poke at your shirt. The way your eyes fall shut when I start to stroke them, and then _tug_.”

He could see her, in his mind, probably lying on top of her bedclothes – she never did well in the heat of Ul’dah, he remembered her saying once – but more important, he could hear her breathing start to hitch, could almost sense her hands starting to tremble.

“And then you start to get your own back, you start running your hands over me and you feel so warm, so warm...” He traced one hand idly up and down his torso, refusing to venture any further for now, even though his erection was hard and heavy against his thigh. He heard more noises, the particular gasp she made when he pinched her nipples, and h _e twitched_ at knowing she was touching herself as well.

“I love the times when we can take _hours_ doing this, just pressing and stroking and feeling, so slow and gentle,” he paused to listen to her ragged breath, “but...but I want more than that tonight.”

She whispered his name, so softly it sounded like he wasn’t meant to hear, and he grinned still wider. He couldn’t help moving his hips, giving one thrust up into his blankets.

“ _Ah..._ I’m going to start touching myself, and I want you to join me. I know you, I know how you like to take hold of me, move me where you need me to be. You put one of my hands on your hip, and the other – you put that to the place I know so well. I never get tired of it, the way you twitch your hips against me at the lightest brush against your lips, the feel of how – _hmm_ – wet you are against my fingers.”

“You know that I’m already yours, my dearest – yours to put where you need. Yours to -“ he couldn’t help the shiver that ran through him again: “Yours to use.”

How right it had felt, when she took his hand for the first time and guided him to where she wanted him the most. And from her moans over the linkpearl it sounded like it was all new again for her, and he supposed it was – he didn’t often have the courage to say aloud the things he wanted. He arched into the touch of his hand on his cock, wishing he could see that particular look on her face when he found the place inside her that made her _wail._

She was close to finding it herself, he realised, hearing her moans take on a desperate note, hearing muffled movements as she tried to push her body to the right angle. The frustrated huff when she couldn’t quite reach, not by herself, not without his help. Her need for him set his whole body burning, and on impulse he took his hand away from his crotch, joining her with his own frustrated groan at the sudden lack of stimulation.

After all, he needed her too. He needed her most when she decided that she was going to take what she wanted from him. He could see the look in her eyes, almost feel her breath against his ear when she asked him. His dear warrior, she always asked, every time, and always shuddered when he said, _yes._

He was trembling now, his whole body burning when he took his length in his hand again. He imagined her grabbing his hips, flipping him onto his back and moving his arms above his head. Most times they didn’t have any restraints but he didn’t need any – her desire was more than enough encouragement for him to stay put. He imagined her tracing her fingers along his cock, delicate touches that teased rather than gratified, could see the wide grin she wore as he twitched and squirmed beneath her.

Once, she’d played that game for what felt like hours, and when she finally took his cock into her mouth he could _feel_ her moans around him as he hungrily bucked into her, all control gone.

He thought about the periods of waiting, of panting silence between them, after she’d put him where she wanted. There was the wait while she sat back to survey her work, counting the marks blooming on his body where she’d been. The wait while she traced the lean lines of his body, ran along his scars, along all the sensitive places that made him whimper. Devouring him with her eyes. Often at that point he was well beyond speech, so he tried to put his feelings in the way he watched her, waiting to see what she would do. He was terrible at disguising the pleading in his face, but he didn’t think she minded.

There weren’t many times when he was permitted to abandon restraint completely, and fewer people who had earned it. How wonderful, then, to live in the same world as his beautiful Warrior. She deserved everything he could give her, and more, and she gave herself right back to him. Round and round, in circles of trust and desire and joy, taking and giving and living...every part of him that he had to give, she wanted.

He realised he’d been saying this out loud without realising, offering his every thought to her – his back arching, sweat beading on his face and tremors in his legs – and she still accepted it all. He had never been this noisy before and he could hear her delight.

“Ah...dearest, my heart, I’m...” he had to suck in a breath of air, abruptly, his lungs not working the way they should be, but he thought she understood anyway. She was saying something, her voice sounding as wrecked as he felt, just as desperate. He couldn’t think, he couldn’t speak, but it didn’t matter – he could make out the way she said, _good boy_ , and it was enough. He moaned and shuddered while his climax coursed through him, eyes screwed shut, spare hand twisted his bedclothes into knots. It felt like forever.

He felt limp, boneless – utterly spent. He couldn’t stop thinking, _used_. He couldn’t think of anything more blissful, more perfect. It was all he could do to try to catch his breath while he listened to her own orgasm take her, his own muscles still twitching in sympathy.

After, they lay for a while in silence. There were so many things he wanted to tell her, but the bleak walls of his room did not invite romanticism. She never said it aloud, but he knew she was haunted by her own chilling isolation. That he was the one who could relieve her loneliness was something he’d never get used to, something he’d sworn never to take for granted.

 _Stay safe, my dearest friend. And come back to me._ From her contented sigh, he knew she’d understood.

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> For some reason, writing from Haurchefant's POV leads to some very flowery language. Haurchefant please.
> 
> I hope you enjoyed!

**Author's Note:**

> This was meant to be pure smut but I got a bad case of the Feels. I blame @skysedge. (Go check out her Haurchefant/WoL fics, too.)


End file.


> This...pretty much took a big bite out of me while I was working on the third chapter of A Dragoon and a Summoner. I've always enjoyed playing my Dragoon and reading the lore about them, and there's not honestly a lot on how they train or even everyday normal work in the Knight-Dragoon order. So cue my brain coming up with insanely random ficbits here and there, along with me squeezing a military buddy who also plays a dragoon for tidbits of military life xD. I apologize if I've gotten anything wrong, I'm cheerfully open to any debate on the theories fictionalized below, and I hope you enjoy reading my brain-drivel. XD XD
> 
> I should also point out, I am purposefully splitting away from the lore on the aspect of how many active-service dragoons there are. I know this was a hot topic when the lorebook first came out. I personally feel the lore number can't be correct based on certain aspects (again, talking with a military buddy) and how Ishgard itself is set up, but that's an explanation for a later date. There is also references (at least I took them as such) to a dragoon-school of sorts in the Congregation, thus my reference to such below.
> 
> Please enjoy! *bow*

                The office was silent as Heustienne looked over the report Brucemont had given her.  

                “…This is it?”  She asked.  “These are all the trainees the school can offer us?”  She looked up at the blue-haired elezen, shocked incredulity in her eyes.  “I can’t show Estinien this!”

                “If it helps, you’re not the only one upset over that list.”  Brucemont ventured.  “Our trainers are just as shocked.  They’re used to low numbers, but that’s…”  He gestured to the paper.  “That breaks the record for the minimum number of squires they’ve ever given us for the next step of their training.”  Reaching into the folio he was carrying, Brucemont handed Heustienne another set of papers.  “You may have to tell Wrymblood that the bulk of the trainees could be coming from our dragoons who took squires to train on their own instead of pulling from the school.”

                “He may not like that…”  Heustienne muttered.  Pressing her lips together, she started to read what Brucemont had given her, her face smoothing out into a calmer expression.  “However, this is much better.”

                “I figured you would like the numbers in that report.”  Brucemont said with a  wry grin.

                “Has there been a chance to perform a general assessment yet?”  Heustienne asked, turning a page. 

                “Not yet, but from what I’ve taken away from the information so far, their numbers have stayed fairly consistent.  But then again, we’re a lot harder in individual training than in the classroom, so it’d make sense that the squires who were trained by individual members of the Order would have more staying power than the students at the school.”  Brucemont looked down at his own notes, paging through the sheets until he found the one that he was looking for.

                “Here we go.  There’s six squires that are ready for drachen-mail trials, they can be staggered with what’s coming from the Congregation’s school.”  He said.  “That leaves an additional seven from the High Houses.  Out of those seven, five of their teachers have expressed a desire to set up their trials personally.” 

                “Have you any survival predictions yet based on what you’ve read?”  Heustienne asked, leaning back in her seat.  She watched as Brucemont sighed, shaking his head.

                “Honestly, the bulk of our first-years could be coming from the individual trainers.”  He said.  “We may get nothing at all from the school-trainees.  Unless the Fury has them high in her favor, they’re either going to wash out the minute they enter our training core, or die on duty.  At least with the dragoons who took on squires, their students stand a better chance at passing what we’ll put them through, and survive patrol-strings.”  Heustienne nodded.  She picked up the papers and started to read them more thoroughly.

                “…Bellarose hasn’t killed his squire yet?”  She said, surprised.

                “He makes it through the trials and his first year, he’ll be a deadly bastard to run into.” Brucemont said, snorting.  He watched as Heustienne raised an eyebrow.

                “Fortemps’ Pendragon finally took a squire on?  And he’s putting in a request for the boy to start senior core training?”

                “He pulled him from the school about two moons back.  But…”  Brucemont gestured.  “I put in a special notation if you haven’t seen it yet.  It may be something you want to investigate, the boy’s run afoul of the Inquisition several times.”  He made a face.  “Poor bugger’s on their shite list, and it’s no fault of his.”

                “Bloody hell.”  Heustienne muttered.  “I’ll check on that today.”  She flipped though the rest of the papers.  “What are the rotations like?”

                “String-switch this afternoon.”  Her first-in-command said.  Dragoon-patrols were called ‘strings’’, as they followed wind-currents throughout Coerthas.  “Some skirmishes reported, but no major injuries or losses…”  The blue-haired elezen checked his papers.  “Coldfire is reporting that he’s got a lead on another nest of Iceheart’s followers, however.”

                “That goes to the Temple Knights.”  Heustienne ordered.  Setting down the papers, she cricked her neck from side to side.  “Have you looked into freeing up any more bodies for Graoully’s hunt?”      

                “It’s possible, but you’d be commanding the junior knights.”  Brucemont warned.  Rank-and-file dragoons were simply known as Knight-Dragoon and a given title, they were the ones who had between two to five years of service.  “If you wanted any of the seniors such as you and me, you’d have to wait for the next string-switch.”  Dragoons with six years of service or more were considered ‘seniors’, and depending on their experience, held ranks from second-lieutenant to captain.  Brucemont himself was a captain, while Heustienne held the rank of First Lance, the Azure Dragoon’s second-in-command.  A frustrated growl escaped Heustienne, but she closed her eyes and shook her head.

                “If we must wait, we must wait.”  She said.  “But we must kill Grauolly, and soon.  He cannot be allowed to wreak any more havoc in the Western Highlands, we have enough difficulty maintaining the supply-lines out there as it is.”  With a sigh, she rose from her chair, and Brucemont snapped to attention.  “I’ll go see the Azure now.”

                “I’ll have the next two fortnights’ rotation on your desk by this afternoon, First Lance.”


	2. Politics (1)

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> Even as a neutral organization, the Knights-Dragoon have to deal with the politics of the Holy See...

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> (The theorycraft madness continues! Given the climate of Ishgard, it goes without saying that even with Estinien's declaration later on in HW that the Knights Dragoon would stay out of the city's power struggles-the Order itself would have deal with House and Church politics. Also the chapter itself is set after the Warrior of Light's fight in the Tribunal, but before their meeting with the Archbishop.)
> 
> (One more note: The canon to me seems to give mixed signals on the usage of anything coming from dragons-it's vilified by the Church, but at the same time you have a levequest demanding dragonskin for book bindings, and the dragoons themselves are running around in armor dipped in the blood of dragons, and use it as a source of power... So my operating theory is that the Knights Dragoon keep silent on the reagents they use for their armor. And while it's a very real possibility that the Church probably knew about this, there's also the fact that the Dragoons are a very small force in comparison to the Church itself, who had a lot of power at the time, so there could be a element of potential danger there.)

                “Hear ye, hear ye, hear ye.  All rise or rather, remain on your lazy arses-”

                “Halone’s tits, Stephan, shut the fuck up!”  The hyuran man grinned cheekily, and bowed to a alburn-haired elezen woman clad in green drachen mail. 

                “I’m with Illeanne.”  Another man said.  His brown hair was messy, with his drachen armor a gunmetal-gray color.  His eyes were sky-blue, and while his features were hyuran, his ears were tapered, betraying his elezen heritage.  “The city-string was shite today.  I want to go home to a nice hot meal and a roaring fire.”

                “What, no orgy tonight, Matthaios?”  Illeanne broke out into cackles as Matthaios made a rude gesture at her.

                “If you two are done with the foreplay…”  A tired looking Duskwight interjected.  Long white hair was starting to fall out of a messy queue, and his armor looked battered as if he’d just come out of a fight.  “I haven’t slept for the past three suns, I just got off the frostbite string, and if I don’t see my bed within the next bell I will kill someone.”

                “Kauchiox, you may end up doing so anyway, considering your House is the reason why we’re all having this impromptu meeting.”  Stephan said, sitting down and reaching for a quill.  His fellow dragoon blinked.

                “…Wait.  Is it about those rumors…?”

                “Not rumors but fact.”  Illeanne said.  Kauchiox swore violently, and dropped his head onto the table.

                “I fucking hate my House!”  He snarled.  The four dragoons gathered were the Order’s representatives to their respective High Houses of Ishgard.  Even though the Knights Dragoon themselves were neutral, oftentimes many of its’ members either came from families that were sworn vassals to a High House, occasionally were members of the House itself, or came from the High Houses’ armies.  To help ensure that the Order stayed free of the power games that Ishgard’s elite were known for, the Dragoon representatives generally kept an eye on any matters that could or were affecting their fellow brothers and sisters in arms.  Potential or current issues were discussed, options were considered, and plans of attack (once cleared by the Azure and the First Lance) put into effect. 

                “Your House has fucking idiots, I’m dealing with a vassal-House coup in mine.”  Matthaios said, rubbing at his eyes.  “Pendragon’s family went completely to shite, and Count Fortemps finally had to step in.”

                “Is Cobalt alright?”  Illeanne asked, concern on her features.

                “He’s fine, all moony-eyed over his new fiancée.”  Matthiaos said, waving a hand.  “But he’s now Head of his House, and is going to have his hands full getting the See to sanction his marriage-please don’t ask me the details, I don’t have them yet.”  He exhaled gustily.  “However, he is properly knotted up over this woman and it’s fucking funny to watch.”

                “I have got to see this.”  Stephan said, his eyes wide.  “Pendragon, losing his mind over a woman?”

                “You’ll have a chance, he’s on city-string this change.”  Matthiaos lifted a hand to rub at the back of his neck.  “As for what’s going on, I’ll know what happened tomorrow after I meet with the Count’s steward.”

                “Things have been quiet-well, mostly quiet in Hallienarte.”  Illeanne said.  “Everyone’s still processing the news of the primal, so they’re too busy to cause trouble.”

                “Any confirmed plans on what Laniette wants to do?”  Kauchiox asked, curious. 

                “She’s pushing for-and from what I hear, going to get her funds to overhaul Camp Cloudtop.”  Illeanne answered.  “Which honestly was long overdue.  The Congregation’s needed to shore up that for ages, and the Holy See using it as a glorified parking lot for that piece-of-shite airship didn’t help with how the general rank-and-file saw duty in the Sea of Clouds.”

                “Morale is up then, huh?”  Stephan asked.

                “Through the roof.”  Illaenne reached over to steal Stephan’s quill and a piece of paper to start writing her own notes.  “Also, I have the same request from Skysteel, ‘please stop using our sodding warehouse roofs for jumping’.”

                “Request ignored.”  Stephan said with a grin, while Matthiaos and Kauchiox snorted.  “But in the same vein, Durendaire’s been quiet, mostly focusing on will adjustments and the like.”

                “Will adjustments?”  Matthiaos repeated, curious.

                “Marriages.”  Stephan said, idly waving a hand.  “Along with some children reaching their majorities.”  He frowned.  “There is one thing I need to investigate, however.  Are any of you familiar with an Arlette Curault?”

                “Short elezen, black hair, tendency to always have a book on her, even on strings?”  Illaenne said.

                “Didn’t she throw one at a dragon once during a kill?”  Kauchiox asked.

                “That’s her.”  Stephan said.  “She wasn’t herself when I was on one of the Central Highlands’ strings with her last sennight.  I had to do a bit of poking and prodding, but I found out she’d basically given away her life-savings to her sister, so she could leave the service of one of Durendaire’s vassal Houses.”

                “What the hell?”  Illaenne exclaimed. 

                “What house?”  Matthiaos asked, eyes narrowed.

                “House Vildaire.  According to Arlette, the housekeeper broke a priceless vase and blamed it on her sister.  The vase’s value had to be paid off completely before she could be allowed to leave, but Arlette suspected that there was more to the story.”

                “I’ve heard some rumors about that House.”  Illaenne said slowly.  “Their lord…he seems to have a taste for his wife’s maids.”  Stephan nodded.

                “The matter seems to be settled, considering the sister is now out and away, but I want to check to make sure there’s no loose ends.”  He said.  “Also, I want to get Arlette her money back.”

                “Drag the housekeeper in front of the Tribunal building.  She’ll smarten up quick and hand it back before you can jump to the roof.”  Kauchiox said.  He sighed, rubbing the back of his neck.  “I’ll meet with Count Dzemael personally tomorrow.  He can’t avoid me if I make a full formality of it.”  Groaning, the Duskwight slumped back against his seat.  “But I would kill for a moon, just one moon, in which the Halone-damned lot of them don’t start anything, don’t aggravate anything…”

                “Considering they’re now the focus of a lot of unwanted attention, you might be getting your wish.”  Matthiaos said.  He glanced over at Stephan.  “Is there any more business that needs to be discussed, or can we…” 

                “Ah…”  Stephan racked his brain.  “Yes, there is.  Brucemont’s said drachen-mail trials will begin within the next two fortnights.  Three suits are ready and up for grabs, but the smithy’s running low on blood and scales, even in their reserves.”  The other three dragoons winced.  The drachen armor was adamantite that was fused with dragon-scale and treated with dragon-blood.  Without those two reagents, the Knights Dragoon was robbed of one of their sources of power for their skills.  However, given the Church’s stance on dragons…

                “Can the smithies free up their apprentices for a hunt?” Illaenne asked. 

                “Not this go-round.”  Stephan said, shaking his head.  “We’re going to have to do the grunt-work, and already looking at the schedule, it’s going to be hard to pull together a group.  Add in the Inquisition being nosy right now and…”  The other three dragoons groaned, and Stephan shrugged helplessly.

                “Sorry.”

                “No no.”  Matthiaos said.  He leaned forward, rubbing one of his temples.  “It is what it is.”

                “Let me look over the current schedule.”  Illaenne offered.  “There could be a unit that could probably get a quick hunt on in Western Coerthas and sneak back in with some supplies.”  Stephan nodded.

                “That’s it then.”  He pushed himself up from his seat.  “We’ll just keep each other informed-and if something goes to the seventh hell, ring out over the pearl.”  The other three dragoons nodded.


	3. Sex (1)

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> As a force made up out of fighting men and women, it should come as no surprise that sex in the Knights Dragoon can be oftentimes complicated...

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> (Interlude chapter. Sexual/implied sexual content ahead. Consider yourself warned.)

                As far as brothels went, the Gilded Spear was the more favored one by the Congregation on a whole, especially among the Knights Dragoon.  It was clean, discreet, and rumor had it that the madam in charge was able to steer clear of the Inquisition’s ‘purges’ due to having a few high-ranking Church officials in her pocket.  Plus, it was the only house of pleasure in Ishgard where the female dragoons could find men.  Otherwise on their end, they would be forced to look for lovers among their fellow Knights (while it did happen, it was technically frowned upon) or among the general population of the city.  And considering that sexual promiscuity was heavily frowned upon on by the Church, the less attention that was called to one’s bedroom activities, the better…

 

\---------------------

 

                It was early in the morning when Oeric Singer made his way out of one of the Gilded Spear’s bedrooms and down it’s main staircase.  A third-year dragoon, he’d just come off his patrol-string the night before, and had been seeking some pleasurable (and warm) company.  Rolling his shoulders, he made his way for the door, only to stop and turn his head.

                “What brings the Lady of the house to see me?”  He quipped.  A blond-haired elezen woman approached him from the shadows, clad in a fine silk dressing gown, her hair pulled back into a loose bun. 

                “Normally I’d let you sulk out like the manwhore you are, but…”  The woman paused, adjusting the folds of her gown.  “Consider this a warning, I wouldn’t visit her any more if I were you.”  Oeric blinked in surprise, he wasn’t expecting this.  

                “Beg pardon?”

                “She’s been bragging about ‘landing’ a dragoon.  Has plans on catching your baby in her belly.”  The elezen woman watched as Oeric’s eyes narrowed.  “I hope for your sake you’ve been using protection, otherwise you’re fucked, honey.”

                “…Thank you.”  Oeric said after several moments.  His good mood had fled, as had the languid relaxation that had been settling into his bones.  “I should be fine in that regard, but I think I’ll not be coming back here for a while.”  The madam watched as he turned back towards the door, striding away.

 

\-----------------------

 

                “Come back to beeed.”

                “No, I can’t.”  Laughing, a black-haired elezen woman pushed herself out of the bed, moving to pick up scattered pieces of drachen mail that were on the floor.  “I have city patrol today, I’ve got to be on the string in an hour.”

                “You’re always working, Celeste.”  The man in the bed sulked, crossing his arms.

                “Well, the city’s safety comes first.”  Armor pieces clinked as Celeste started to put them back on.  “You knew this when we first started, I’m sorry.”

                “Don’t you want to retire?”  The question made Celeste stop, and she lifted her head to stare at her companion in the mirror.  “How long have you been doing this?  Seven years?  That’s long enough, isn’t it?  You should start to think about settling down, have a child.”  He blinked as Celeste suddenly started to move again, putting on her armor faster.  “Celeste?”

                “I’ll call you later.”  The elezen woman said.  She flexed the fingers of her right hand as she put on her gauntlet, then reached for her Gale Bog that was leaning against the wall next to the door.  “You can see your way out, yes?”

 

\-------------------

 

                “Sign here, here, and…”  The clerk yelped as the thick packet of papers was swiped from him.  “Ser Callix!”

                “I just want to get this fucking over with!”  The elezen reached for a quill, starting to hastily sign his name to the marked spots on the papers.  “The sooner I can get this done, the sooner I can kick that bitch out of my life and I can try to put it fucking back together!”

                “Now ser…”  The clerk stammered, adjusting his glasses.  “It couldn’t have been all that bad.  I mean, surely there were some difficulties with you being gone on duty, but…”

                “Here.”  Callix shoved the papers at the other man.  “Is it finished?”

                “Ah…ah…”  The clerk quickly flipped though the packet.  “Y-yes ser.  I suppose you’ll be wanting to deal with the Church’s legalities on divorce when you return from your duty…”

                “The whore cheated on me.  She should be dealing with them, not me!”

                “And-and she will, ser!  It’s just that there needs to be from both parties…”  A dragon-like snarl had the clerk muffling a shriek, gathering up his bag and hurrying towards the door.

                “We can finish when you’re back from your duty!  Halone bless you, ser!”  The room fell silent after the younger elezen’s hurried departure, and Callix hung his head, hands lifting to fist his in hair.  Hot tears threatened to spill from his eyes, yet he held them back though sheer force of will.

_Three years…three years.  I was faithful, I was loyal…and this is what I get?_

 

\-----------------------

 

                A brown-haired hyur opened one eye, peering at the chronometer that was illuminated by a faint strip of light from the lamppost outside on the far wall.  It was after midnight, and the city itself was deep in slumber.  The room was the right balance between hot and cold, and she was quite warm beneath her covers.  The man that had just joined her on the other hand…

                “I’ll have you know ser, I’m waiting for my fiancée to return.”  She said primly.   There was a chuckle, and then a pair of hands settled on her hips.  “He’s a very important Knight-Dragoon of the city, and I don’t think he’d be pleased to find you here.”

                “I don’t know about that…”  With a giggle, the brunette allowed herself to be pulled over to the other side of the bed.              

                “Ah, you’re cold!”  She squealed.

                “Now this is a very nice thing to find when one returns from a patrol…”  There was another squeal, and then a man’s chuckle.  “A very nice thing indeed.”


	4. Patrol (1)

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> While on patrol, a Knight-Dragoon unit finds they've got just a little bit more on their plate to deal with other than dragons...

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> (Reaching out a bit into stretch territory here I feel, but. Considering the Knights-Dragoon can get around Coerthas possibly faster than the Temple Knights, I figured it was a possibility that on occasion they were called to do some work for the Inquisition. As for Shiva, well...stands to reason that they'd try the summoning again. After all, that seems to be the implied story for her EX fight... *shrug*)

                Upon passing their drachen-mail trials, dragoons were assigned a partner and put into a unit consisting of four members.  From there, the units were assigned to a different patrol-string of Coerthas whenever they were on shift.  Depending on the situation, patrols could last for as little as a week to a full moon.  Some were also easy, such as the patrols in the Sea of Clouds (pre-Bismarck), while others were extremely difficult (the Dusk Vigil string, or the Xelphatol string—made even worse if Garuda was summoned). 

                Once on the string, the dragoons followed a set schedule.  12 hours on patrol in the sky, jumping from point to point, following the wind currents, ever watchful for dragons or any of the Horde, then switch out with the other pair in the unit with them for a chance at rest and food.  Camps were made in little caves or alcoves that provided some protection from the now-bitter Coerthas winds.  And scattered inbetween the strings were the occasional shrine to Halone/memorial to their fallen brothers or sisters.  It wasn’t uncommon to see frozen offerings of food and drink, along with small trophies from patrols or hunts set up at the altars.

                And on occasion, those who were out on patrol-strings were often called to perform extra duties…

 

 

                “For fuck’s sake why can’t the Inquisition send out their own fucking people to do their own fucking investigation?  Get their fucking arses out of their fucking warm chairs and actually do some godsdamned work…”               

                “Will you stop bitching?! Stop bitching for one-no, five fucking minutes! That’s all you ever do! Bitch bitch bitch bitch!”

                “Excuse you, I am expressing my opinion, which I have a right to, and-”  Matthiaos rolled his eyes, turning his head to stare back at the duo behind him.

                “Will you two please just shut the fuck up!”  Alongside him, his partner—a black-haired elezen in silver armor—snorted.  “Halone’s tits, you’re like a married couple!”  Two drachen-mail helms snapped towards him-one ruby red, the other a sky blue.

                “Like you’re any better?”             

                “Coldfire, seriously.  Shut the fuck up.”  Matthiaos snapped.  The sky-blue dragoon lifted his helm, revealing a hyuran man with vivid green eyes.  “You reported this in.  What in the name of Halone’s halls made you think that the Inquisition was going to do their own follow-up work out here?”

                “Eternal bright-eyed optimism?”  Coldfire shot back.  His partner snorted, pushing up their own helm-revealing that she was also a hyur.

                “If you’re a fucking optimist, then I’m a noble.”  She snapped, violet eyes flashing. 

                “Alright, alright, everyone calm down.”  Matthiaos’ partner raised one gauntleted hand.  His armor was teal in color.  “We’re all tired and a little stabby.”

                “Understatement of the moon, Jeannoix.”  The red-armored dragoon said.  Jeannoix gave her a deadpan look.

                “We know you two need to rest.”  He said, pointing at the duo.  “You two start bouncing off the walls and each other when you haven’t gotten enough sleep.  You didn’t have to come, you could have just as easily told us the location, and Matthiaos and I could investigate this place ourselves.”

                “And what if you got attacked by heretics?”  Coldfire said, crossing his arms.  “No.  You need backup, and that’s what Brigid and I are here for.”  Bridgid nodded.

                “Not like we can do much anyway.”  Matthiaos said, turning back to survey the staircase in front of him.  “Dead-Eye and his unit can’t cover us for long.”  Holding up a hand, he summoned a ball of dragonfire to provide some illumination, starting to walk down the stairs.  The cellar of the abandoned house looked as if it’d seen better days, with everything covered in a layer of frost.  Yet it looked as if someone had been in the room recently, as there were still clear footprints on the floor and drag marks in the frost, indicating something had been moved.

                “The weather’s been absolute shite lately, even more than normal.”  Bridgid said.  “Normally when it gets like this, the heretics just bunker down and wait for a clear day before they start scuttling between the abandoned villages.”  Coldfire nodded.  “So we were surprised when we saw and tracked that group moving though the blizzard to here…”  Jeannoix had moved over to several frozen wine casks, investigating them. 

                “Matthiaos, here.”  He said.  Matthiaos turned his head.  “I sense aether coming from these.”

                “Aether?”  Coldfire echoed.  Matthiaos moved to stand next to Jeannoix, placing a hand against one cask.  Tapping on it with clawed fingers, he frowned.

                “This…”  He tapped again, and then reached for the cork.  It pulled off easily.  “…Alright then.  These haven’t been here for long, despite how they look on the outside.”

                “Move, Mat.”  Jeannoix said.  Gripping the cask, he braced himself and sent it flying to the ground.  The wood splintered and cracked, revealing the sparkle and flash of crystals hidden within.  All four dragoons froze, staring at the unexpected contents.

                “…Matthiaos?”  Jeannoix ventured after several moments.

                “Yes.”

                “Those are…”  Brigid breathed, eyes wide.

                “Yes.”  Matthiaos repeated. 

                “Are you thinking what I’m thinking-” Coldfire began, sucking in a breath.  He hurried to another cask, balling one mailed hand up into a fist and punching though the wood.  As he withdrew his hand, more crystals sparked under the glow of Matthiaos’ dragonfire.

                “All of these are probably filled with crystals.”  The Fortemps dragoon breathed, looking around the cellar once more.

                “Shiva?”  Jeannoix dared to ask, looking at his partner.  Matthiaos offered a quick nod.

                “Has to be.”  He said.  “And if that’s the case, we need to take care of these and be gone before the heretics come back.”      

                “I’ll raise Redwald on the pearl.”  Brigid said, turning and heading for the stairs.  “Frostwhisper’s unit should be right next to them, they can help get them over here.”

                “I’ll go keep an eye out.”  Coldfire added.  “We weren’t followed on our way here, but the weather should be clearing soon.”  Matthiaos nodded. 

                “Tell them to be quick about it.”  He ordered.


	5. Squires (1)

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> On the heels of a senior dragoon's death, the squires of the Knights-Dragoon try to make sense of what happened, just as the Dragonsong War begins to shift on the path towards its' end...

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> (So for this, I decided to snag my dragoon to give a point of view from the squires-Reinhardt. Please pardon his usage, it's for creative purposes.)

                The air in the Knight-Dragoon area of the Congregation was always grim following the deaths of those who had fallen in duty.  And while it appeared rather callous to the untrained eye that the dragoons carried on as normal, there were signs that every death did affect the Order.  The trainers were harsher on the squires, the medics were grim-faced and silent, and there would be a steady stream of dragoons filing in and out of the memorial tower to the dead, leaving small offerings and prayers for their fallen kin. 

                But when it was a senior dragoon who had fallen, the mood seemed to be ten times worse…

 

\--------------

 

                Reinhardt Beauregard let himself sprawl on one of the floor-mats as his class trainer stalked towards the door.  Around him his fellow squires were doing the same, stifling low moans and groans o pain.

                “Please kill me.”  A Duskwight elezen moaned into the floor next to him.

                “Can’t.  Dead-Eye would bring you back to life just so that he could kill you himself, and then get going on your dead body.”  Another elezen-a Wildwood-replied.  Reinhardt winced rolling over onto his back.

                “Does anyone even know what in the seven hells happened?”  He asked.

                “I do.”  A hand lifted from the floor, belonging to a blond Hyur.  “Well, I know some.  Graoully and his minions appeared out of nowhere, hitting the supply-points in Western Coerthas before making a turn for the city.”          

                “Wasn’t Ser Vimaroix putting together a hunt for him?”  Another squire asked.

                “She was, but she was waiting for the other senior dragoons to come back.”  The Duskwight said, rolling over onto his back.

                “Aye!  But considering the bastard just popped up, she didn’t have a choice but to respond.  And she pulled together a pretty solid team.  But…”  The other hyur trailed off, sombering.  “It was a trap.”

                “Brucemont’s getting First Lance.”  A female elezen said, sitting up.

                “Already got it, you mean.”  Came the correction from another squire.  “His old place’s open, along with the spots of the three who died.”  Reinhardt furrowed his brows, listening.

                “I heard that they’re shifting positions around and that they’re going to allow the highest-ranked squires out on the actual patrols with the partners of the dragoons that were injured until they’re back on their feet!”  Those words suddenly gave new life to the class, as the speaker suddenly found himself ambushed by his fellows.

                “Stop lying!”

                “I swear on the Fury’s spear and shield, it’s the truth!”

                “I’d fucking do a shit-string in my underwear if it got me a chance to go on an actual patrol.”  Another squire said, raw longing in his tone.  “I’d do it barefoot and with a dull pike.”  Reinhardt blinked in sudden surprise as a finger was pointed at him.

                “What the hells?”

                “You’re going to be one of them!”  Reinhardt snorted, sitting back down.

                “Pull the other one, why don’t you?”  He quipped.

                “You’re like one of the top squires in House Fortemps right now!”  The speaker, a petite brown-haired hyur said.  “And you were one of the few in the school class who survived Vishap!  Shite, you should have been in drachen-mail by now!”

                “Yeah well, let’s not go there.”  Reinhardt muttered, ducking his head.  His stomach twisted, memories of his expulsion from the dragoon-school were enough to make him feel ill.  Had it not been for the Colbalt Dragoon, he wouldn’t have had another chance to fulfill his dream.  For all their proclamations of following one of Halone’s core tenets-mercy, the Church and much of Ishgard wasn’t willing to show it to the families of anyone accused of heresy.

                “Do you think that…”  The sound of bells ringing shot the training room into immediate silence.  All the squires froze where they were, holding their breath.  It wasn’t the normal time for the bells to ring, which meant there was an emergency.  What type of emergency it was though, depended on the ringing pattern…

                _One-two, one-two, one-two…_   Reinhardt sucked in a sharp gasp of air as he recognized the pattern.  At the same time, the linkpearls of the squires exploded with noise.

                _All dragoon units report back to the Congregation!  I repeat, all dragoon units report back to the Congregation!  Abandon your strings and report back to the Congregation!  All squires report to your duty stations at once!  I repeat!  All dragoon units report back to the Congregation, all squires report to your duty stations! This is not a drill!  This is not a drill!_

                “Go, let’s go, let’s go!”  A voice broke into the collective stunned mindset of the squires, and suddenly the room was a flurry of activity as the squires hurried for the exit, Reinhardt among them.  The bells continued to ring, spreading the warning to all Ishgard, far faster than any messenger bird or mortal.  Nidhogg’s Horde had been sighted, and was heading straight for the holy city…


	6. Strategy

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> As the Azure Dragoon leaves on a mission with the Warrior of Light, the Knights-Dragoon must step up in Estinien's absence to defend the city.

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> (Right. Notation time. First off, Skyfire Locks is listed as an evacuation haven for the people of Ishgard, and I've honestly never done the quests in that area-or the Machinist HW questline, so I admit my lore could be iffy on that part. But it's interesting that Skyfire never gets brought up given everything that happens.
> 
> Second: We don't get details on just what the Holy See's plan of defense was when Nidhogg initially started to gear up to attack Ishgard. But given the reactions of Estinien and Aymeric, I think it's reasonable to say that whatever it was, possibly could have resulted in the deaths of many Ishgardians. Given that we also witness Thordan VII and the Heavens' Ward fleeing during a time of upheaval in the city, I felt it was safe enough to possibly imply that the original defense plan could have also included them leaving Ishgard to it's fate and searching for the key to Azys Lla.
> 
> Third: Okay let's be frank. 3/4ths of the Heavens' Ward are assholes, another 1/4 seem to be sneaky pious bastards and the remaining amount...we'll let the jury decide. But I feel there's a possibility there in the lore for a little bit of possible bad blood between the Knights Dragoon and the Heaven's Ward, especially given the lore background for some of the members. 
> 
> Fourth: Also, who's not to say you can't be loyally passionate to the Church but still get your jump on as a dragoon?)

                Had the plan been admitted to any other quarter of Ishgard, it would have been called cowardly.  The city was in a frenzied state of panic following the news of Nidhogg’s Horde being sighted, a frenzy made worse by the loss of Daniffin’s Collar.  The entire city was now defenseless to whatever the Dravanians could bring to bear.  From their pulpits, the priests preached calm, while the military drew in upon itself, scrambling to come up with anything, anything that would offer a strong defense…

_“The Warrior of Light and her companions have a plan.  What it is, I dare not tell you all, for fear that it would draw attention from the wrong quarters.”  A ripple of sound broke out among the dragoons, but they fell silent as Estinien raised a hand._

_“I will be accompanying them with the Eye, and it should turn Nidhogg’s gaze from the city for a time.  That should buy more time to shore up the defenses.”  The Azure Dragoon paused, crossing his arms as he looked to each one of his fellows.  “If it works, we may gain an advantage over Nidhogg and his horde.”  He quieted then, watching as the dragoons murmured amongst themselves again, processing his words._

_“Whatever it is ser, it has to be better than the fucking idiotic plan that cocksucker Zephrim’s come up with.”  Stephan said into the silence, crossing his arms._

_“Aye.  I wish to die in honorable battle, but what the Ward is suggesting is a slaughter.”  Illaenne agreed._

_“Notice how they weren’t on the front lines in their strategy?”  A dragoon in red armor sneered._

_“Peace, all of you.”  Estinien ordered.  Some pro-Church members of the Order were bristling at the current topic, with Stephan being on the receiving end of several dark glowers._

_“Do you know how long this plan will take, ser?”  Brucemont asked.  Estinien shook his head, his ponytail waving._

_“I do not know.  But I will be in linkpearl contact with you, First Lance.  Should there be any changes to our enemy or if it works, you will be the first one notified.”_

 

_\---------------_

 

“I’m ordering an increase on the patrol-strings here.”  Brucemont said, marking ink marks on a large map of the Central Highlands.  “Hallienarte is working on getting Skyfire Locks ready to take in refugees, and as such they’re going to need protection around the clock.”   

                “What about the Western Highlands, ser?”  A junior dragoon asked.

                “The Archbishop’s issued a decree, all travel in the Western Highlands is to immediately cease.  As for us, I want the patrol strings…”  Brucemont gestured and his squire hurried up to put up a fresh map of the Western Highlands on the wall.  “Units keep to the Riversmeet and Warrens string, along with the Red Rim string.  The only one allowed to go further will be the search and rescue party for any merchants and travelers that may be still be out there.”

                “Round the clock duty as well?”  Kauchiox asked.

                “We don’t stop until we hear something from the Azure.”  Brucemont said.  “Also.  Drachen-mail trials are officially on hold.  Take notes of who’s stopped where, if anyone’s passed get them in their armor and onto the strings, we’ve no time for ceremonies.”  He paused for several moments, thinking.

 _Is that…no.  That’s not everything._   “Conscript the high-ranking squires into bodyguard duty for the supply-wagons for the Locks.  The Horde may send troops to harass them and they need to be covered.”  He said. 

                “What if we get orders from the Heavens’ Ward, First Lance?”

                “Ignore them.”  Brucemont said. “We have our orders from the Azure Dragoon-we are to help the city by keeping the Dravanians away from the defense-work for as long as we can.  Pray to the Fury that she favors him and the Warrior of Light in their mission.”

                “Aye First Lance!”  Brucemont was silent, considering his next words.

                “…For those of you who have families and children…”  He began.  “The Lord High Commander has asked me to pass onto you that they will be among the first to leave the city when the evacuation order is given.  Contact them now to have them begin preparing.”  He inhaled deeply.  “I wish I could give you the time to leave and handle their affairs…but I cannot.  I’m sorry.”  A heavy silence filled the meeting room, and Brucemont cleared his throat.

               “Dismissed!”  He barked.  As one, the Knights Dragoon snapped to attention and saluted, and then broke apart into their units, starting to discuss what needed to be done.  Brucemont turned his head towards the window, pressing his lips together. 

_Lady Fury, show us your mercy.  Grant us sinners a reprieve…_


	7. Stress (1)

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> While the Knights-Dragoon await word from Estinien and Ishgard struggles to pull together new defenses before Nidhogg's attack, the stress of waiting starts to manifest within the Order.

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> (notes at end of chapter, as this is a pet theorycraft of mine and explanation is LONG)

                No matter the country, waiting for the enemy’s next move was always a dangerous undertaking for any military.  And while the Knights Dragoon were trained to be patient, the stress of not knowing what their leader was up to, along with having their possible demise stare at them in the face along with the very real fear that they could fail in their sworn duty—protecting Ishgard’s people—it gnawed upon everyone’s mind. 

 

                The third day after Estinien’s departure, skirmishes were reported in the Central Highlands.  Groups of Horde scouts, much like how they had when Vishap had first came-appeared to attack the city’s defense preparations.  The fighting ended on the fifth day with victory for the Ishgardian defenders, though it came at a cost.  Deaths were reported in the House armies as well as the Temple Knights.  The Dragoons were hit as well, losing two squires and another three being rushed to the infirmary, along with a senior Dragoon.

 

                On the seventh day, more Horde scouts came.  The fighting ended with another victory for the defenders, though the body count rose once again.

 

                The eleventh day brought frayed nerves, as there was no sign of enemy activity.  But there were now replacement defenses for the city, in the form of remounted dragonkillers in strategic locations, and new protective shields for the most vulnerable areas.  While not as powerful as the original wards they at least would buy some time for those being protected within to come up with counterattacks should the enemy reach that far.

 

                The thirteenth day brought word of a row between Brucemont and Ser Zephrim…or rather, the First Lance graphically telling the Very Reverent Archimandrite the different ways he could engage in sexual congress with his sword (in rather lurid detail) when the latter attempted to reassign the Knights Dragoon.  Ser Aymeric was forced to step in and uphold Estinien’s commands (and if the rumors were true, physically drag an enraged Brucemont away).  But the damage was already done, as a rumor began to spread that Zephrim had been targeting the order for something, possibly a suicidal mission as a first-strike offensive against the gathering horde.

 

                And on the fourteenth day, things started to come to a head…

 

 

 

 

                “Ser Jienette!”  A squire burst into Illaenne’s room, her eyes wide.  “Come quick!”  Jolted out of a restless nap, Illaenne sat up in bed, pushing off the covers.

                “Is it an attack?!” 

                “No!  Ser Bellarose sent me to get you—Nightwind and Wrymheart are fighting!  He’s got them locked up in a training room-”

                “Does anyone else know?”  Illaenne barked, hastily pulling on a pair of pants beneath the oversized tunic she wore to sleep in.

                “No ma’am!”

                “Keep it that way!”  Illaenne made for the door, pausing only to make sure that her soulstone was secure against her skin.

                _Seven hells!  I know we were overdue but of all the times…_   She hurried down the hallway.  It wasn’t uncommon for fights to break out between members of the Order, in fact it was highly encouraged.  Dragoons on a whole were generally stubborn and extremely hard-headed, so it was a given that sometimes during disagreements, fists often would start flying.  Illaenne herself had been in her fair share of fights, ranging from dealing with a jealous co-worker to having to establish dominance over a group of first-year dragoons.  It was even rumored that Estinein and the now-deceased Heustienne had even engaged in their own no-holds-barred combat when the former had been chosen by the Eye.  As Ilaenne approached the training hall, she spotted a black-haired elezen man standing guard outside one of the rooms.

                “Lucian!”  At his name, the man turned to face her, revealing a heavily scarred face with a patch over his left eye.

                “Give them another couple of minutes.”  He said, not wincing as the sound of a body slamming into a wall was heard.  “I corralled them in here because they were flinging dragonfire at each other and acting a little too scaley for comfort.  Don’t need the Inquisition here.”

                “You sure.”  Illaenne asked.

                “Those two have been bouncing off each other’s nerves for the fortnight.”  Lucian rubbed the back of his neck.  “Might be that we’ll have a few more spats like this over the week’s end.”

                “Please don’t go picking fights.  Please.  Even if it’s in the name of keeping us sane.”  Illaenne said.  She looked at the door, the commotion having died down.  Lucian turned around, unlocking the door and cracking it open.

                “You two all made up now?”  He called.  The smell of dragonfire was heavy in the room, and it made Illaenne freeze for several moments.  A chill ran over her skin as memories suddenly swamped her, screams filling her ears…  Her soulstone pulsed, and Illaenne felt something electrical flick over her skin, helping ground her in the present.

                “You two jackarses are aware you’re fucking fixing my room, aye?”  Lucian snapped, unaware of Illaenne’s pause.  He strode inside.  “That includes you mopping up all your blood, Kauchiox!”

                “Oh, please just fuck off.”  The Dzemael dragoon groaned.  His face was swelling up to the point where it was hard to recognize him, and he spat two bloody teeth into a palm.  Not too far from him, face down on the floor, Matthiaos lifted a hand in a rude gesture to Lucian, who cackled and poked him with a foot.

                “…I see we need to start letting off some steam.”  Brucemont’s voice had Illaenne and Lucian spinning around and snapping to attention. 

                “Ser!”  The First Lance quirked an eyebrow as he peered into the room.  From the floor, Kauchiox offered a half-hearted salute, while Matthiaos just waved.

                “Dead-Eye, make sure these two end up with Bishop as their healer, aye?”  Groans came from the duo, and a positively evil smile crossed Lucian’s face.  “We can afford to be down a pair of idiots for a day or two.”  The words caught the dragoons’ attention, and Illaenne was the first to speak.

                “First Lance?”  She asked, anticipation suddenly twisting her stomach.  Hope was beginning to bloom, had there…  Brucemont looked at her, nodding.

                “He’s made contact.”  He said.  “He and the Warrior of Light have passed though Sohm Al, and are heading into Dravania proper.”  An exhausted smile spread over Brucemont’s features.  “They fought and defeated Tioman.”

                “Nidhogg’s consort?!”  Kauchiox exclaimed, pain forgotten. 

                “Aye.  The Horde are in chaos now that their master’s suffered this blow, and so we have a reprieve.  Expect a new schedule to come out in several bells.  All of us need to rest and regain our wits.”  Brucemont glanced at Kauchiox and Matthiaos.  “Some of us more than others, it seems.”

                “He started it.”  Matthiaos said, pointing a finger toward Kauchiox, who scoffed.

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> (So I went a little bit more out on a theorycraft limb, this chapter has something I've been personally nursing for a while. The DRG questline in both ARR and HW heavily emphasize gaining control of and using the 'dragon within/inner dragon' as a source of power, and with the Ishgardian revelation on the dragonblood curse, I felt that brings up a few interesting points for the Knights Dragoon possibly acting much like how an actual dragonflight would behave in some cases. 
> 
>  
> 
> While it can be argued that the Ishgardian dragoncurse doesn't extend to -all- of the city's inhabitants, as you progress though HW and into/through SB, references are made to the (I saw this used on the wiki and I feel it's a good way to reference them) 'proto'-Ishgardian knights aiding the dragons, flying on dragonback. Add in that the two races used to live together in harmony, and in a lot of fantasy these days, dragon-blood is considered an extremely valuable reagent--I feel there's a very real possibility that there could be far more people who could have dragon-blood in their veins or are descendants of those who had as such, and the power is still there, thus leading to the 'dragon within/inner dragon' if given the right triggering circumstances.
> 
> There is also the possibility that the Knights-Dragoon themselves could have perhaps ingested blood as part of an initiation ritual into the Order, or maybe a few do to help enhance their powers, or dragon-blood could have got in via an open wound or sprayed onto one's lips or mouth during combat...it's all very ambiguous, I feel. Or perhaps it's an aetherical reaction from wearing the dragon-infused armor for great lengths of time. I could be quite wrong, but given how strongly the ARR/HW job questlines focus on this particular aspect (and to a degree, Stormblood), I think it's worth a look at.
> 
> Two final notes: As a bit more evidence for above, the DRG's ingame LB3, Dragonsong Dive. In the final SB job quest, you're able to get a much better view of the actual attack, and your character seems to -physically vanish-, only to reappear during the landing (in comparison to the other LB3 attacks) I take that to assume the DRG and the dragon called upon merge as one for those brief seconds. There's also Mirage Dive, which can also be implied as the dragoon's inner dragon separating from it's wielder for an attack of it's own.
> 
> Lastly. While I know actual infighting is frowned heavily upon in the military, in the course of my research I came across a FB video and subsequent comment thread that suggests that some decades back, it was actually promoted within the ranks that if two soldiers had a problem with each other, they simply fought it out and made up afterwards. To me it sounded like what would probably be the norm for the Knights Dragoon if there were two dragoons who couldn't resolve their issues though talk, and so I decided to run with the idea.)


	8. Sex (2)

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> The Order finds a moment of respite in the wake of Tioman's death.

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> (Just a theorycraft idea here and there in this one, nothing major. 'Battle-mind': my take on how the Eorzeans would describe PSTD.)

                “So, come on, Laurent.”  Stephan coaxed, waggling his fingers at another dragoon.  “Details, you promised.”  The following week had brought a respite for Ishgard and the Knights-Dragoon, with only one half-hearted skirmish coming from Horde scouts in the Western Highlands.

                “There’s not much.  If he wants to marry her, they have to do it outside of the city.”  The House Fortemps dragoon said, wincing as he moved to pick up a cleaning cloth.  “So, they’re planning to do that.”

                “Smart man.”  An older dragoon in teal-colored armor said, he was busily cleaning his Gale Bog.  “Though…wait.  Where are they getting married?”

                “Next moon in Ul'dah. If he can bring in legal papers from there proving they’re wed, the Church has no choice but to accept her as his wife.”

                “I’ve seen her around.  Cute little thing.”  Coldfire said, starting to unstrap his armor.  “For fuck’s sake, keep him and her clear of Callix though.  He is a walking mess.”            

                “Still?”  Stephen asked.

                “Aye.  At the rate he’s going he’s this close to getting taken off duty.”  Coldfire said, gesturing with his index finger and thumb. 

                “Technically if Pendragon wants to be very smart and if that woman is truly keen on having him, he’d marry her and get her pregnant.”  The dragoon with the teal armor mused.  “Ring on her finger and a baby in her belly, the See’s got no choice then but to validate the marriage.”  

                “His House does have no heirs…”  Laurent mused.   “And he’s not the only vassal House that’s lacking them.  There are some others as well.”

                “Durendaire’s going to lose one.”  Stephan said softly.  “Marcus Chaput?  One of those who died with Heustienne?  He was the last of his line.”  The other dragoons exclaimed softly, some making holy gestures with their hands. 

                “I thought he and his wife…”  Coldfire whispered.

                “They’d been trying, but…”  Stephan shook his head.  “The miscarriages.  It possibly broke something inside her.”  He exhaled. “So, she’s a widow now, and not a wealthy one.  Chaput was hoping he could restore the family fortunes by serving.”

                “One of Illeanne’s unit lost her brother in the attack near Skyfire Locks.  She’s the only child left of the family now, and her father’s starting to put pressure on her to quit and marry.  Speaking of which…”  Laurent looked around.  “Where is she?”

                “Sleeping.  She just got her few days off.”  Stephan said.  He muffled a yawn.  “Which is what I plan on doing after this…”

 

\----------------

 

                Illaenne sank into the mattress, feeling a pleasant lassitude take over her body.  Atop her, Matthiaos chuckled, bending his head to nuzzle at her neck.

                “Finally satisfied?”

                “I’m five and twenty and not a spring chicken anymore. What do you want from me?”  Illeanne replied. 

                “Could have fooled me.”  Matthiaos said.  Pulling away, he moved to settle on his side and pulled the female elezen in to spoon.  “Seriously though.”  He lifted a hand to push a damp lock of hair from Illaenne’s forehead.  “What’s wrong?  I could feel the tension in your body when we first got here.”  Illaenne was quiet for several moments, absorbing the comfort of Matthiaos’s body.

                “…I’m tired.”  She finally said, breaking the silence.  “And yes-I know we’re all tired, but this is…tired tired.  Seven years I’ve done this.  This is the tired from too much fighting, from my battle-mind, from…”  She sighed.  “Everything.”

                “Has it been bad for you?”  Matthiaos asked, worried.  Battle-mind was something not taken lightly.  Every dragoon had it to varying degrees, but it only grew worse as their years of service advanced.

                “A little bit.”  Illaenne confessed.  “I know it’s the stress of the situation we’re in now, but at the same time…”  She closed her eyes as Matthiaos rested a hand on her spine, gently moving it up and down.  “If we somehow hold off or defeat Nidhogg and his Horde, I may probably give up my spear.  I know it’s five years too early, but I…I don’t think I have that much left in me to give.  I want to get out with what I still have of myself.”  She opened her eyes, looking up at the ceiling.

                “When did you get your drachen mail?” Matthiaos asked.

                “Eighteen.”  Ilaenne said, turning her head to look at him.  “You?”

                “Seventeen.” 

                “Only a year off.”  The female elezen murmured.              

                “A year off and a lot of shite I had to wade through.”  Matthiaos said.  “The Order’s the first real group of people who accept me as one of their own and not look down on me because I’m a half-breed.”  He continued rubbing Illaenne’s back.  The female elezen sighed.

                “I should get up and leave…but I don’t want to.”

                “So, don’t.  We’re both smart, we made sure we weren’t followed.”  Matthiaos’ voice dropped by several octaves, a sound that made Illaenne want to curl her toes.  Matthiaos was certainly no Ser Aymeric when it came to his voice, but it still was very pleasing to a partner’s ears.  In fact, their arrangement was pleasing overall…if the unwritten rule that it was a bad idea for dragoons to fraternize in any other way other than platonic friendship was ignored.  Though like so many decrees in the Order, it was ignored (and in some cases) rolled up, stabbed, and then set alight with dragonfire.

                “I should.  You know how we talk.”  Illaenne made a half-hearted attempt to get up, only to cave into the sudden strength of Matthiaos’ arms around her, adding even more weight to the temptation to just close her eyes and drift off.

                “Nobody knows.  Besides, they’re too busy gossiping about Pendagon and a few others.”  He said.  “So, we are completely unnoticeable.”  Illaenne sighed. 

                “Wake me in a few bells then?”  She mumbled.  Matthiaos smiled and pulled her closer.

                “A few bells.” He agreed.


	9. Fracture (1)

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> Estinien and the Warrior of Light return to the city, and the preparations to take the fight to Nidhogg begin. But at the same time, the truth of the Dragonsong War starts to make itself known to the Order...

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> (Right. This was a difficult chapter for me, I don't feel very confident in it, but here it is! Please forgive the creative liberties I took. *bow*
> 
> Also the questline I reference is the infamous level 56 line that involves the Knights Dragoon in the Churning Mists. While it does take place after Nidhogg's defeat, I feel that with the rather explosive revelations of Hraesvelgr that there could be the real possibility that Estinien could have passed on what he would have learned to a trusted second when he first returned to the city, along with perhaps ordering a secret mission into Dravania for information.
> 
> Also, it's confirmed lore that House Dzemael primarily are Ishgard's stonecutters and carvers.)

                Another fortnight passed and then as suddenly as they had left, the Warrior of Light and Estinien returned to the city.  With the return of their leader and the subsequent silence from the Horde, the Order’s spirits were generally lifted, and a grateful Brucemont was only too happy to hand back over the reins of command.  But the peace didn’t last for long, as explosive news began to circulate through the Knights Dragoon…

 

\--------

 

                “Gods be good.”  Matthiaos muttered.  Stephan was shaking his head, Illaenne had a worried expression on her face, and Kauchiox had his arms crossed.  They were in Brucemont’s office, awaiting the First Lance’s arrival. 

                “Is it that surprising?  It was a given at some point.”  The Dzemael dragoon said.  “All we can do is pray and hope he’s able to put the bastard down or hurt him enough to make him go into slumber again.  Though with the Warrior of Light at his side…”  The quartet fell silent, each one trying to imagine Nidhogg’s death and what it would mean for the city.

                “…Do you know, I never really thought…”  Illaenne quieted as Brucemont suddenly entered, and she and the other House representatives came to attention.  “First Lance!”

                “At ease, at ease.”  With a sigh, Brucemont dropped heavily into his seat, setting a wrapped item down on his desk.  “And all of you, sit.  Halone knows you’re going to need to.”  The four dragoons blinked at each other, and then looked at Brucemont.

                “…Ser?”  Stephan ventured.  With a sigh, Brucemont leaned forward, lacing his fingers together.  He looked at each dragoon in turn, his face grim.

                “I just came from a meeting with the Azure.”  He said.  “During it, he made me privy to the reason why he and the Warrior of Light left the city…and of what they encountered in Dravania.  I called the four of you together because…”  The blue-haired elezen paused. 

                “Because what, ser?”  Illaenne asked.  Brucemont pressed his lips together.

                “To begin with, the Warrior of Light and the Azure traveled in the company of Lady Iceheart…”  Slowly Brucemont broke the tale of Estinien’s travels, and Hraesvelgr’s story of his brood sister’s murder and the apparent treachery of King Thordan.  Stephan and the others listened in dumbfounded shock, both Illaenne and Kauchiox following Brucemont’s order to sit when their legs threatened to give way.  Matthiaos stared wordlessly at the First Lance, skin pale.

                “Can…can this be believed?”  He whispered.  In response, Brucemont picked up the small bundle from his desk, unwrapping it.  A piece of crumbling masonry came into view, and he held it out towards Kauchiox.

                “The Azure took this as proof of what he witnessed.  However, you being…”  He trailed off, and then continued.  “He says you would be able to authenticate this.”  The Duskwight took the masonry, turning it over in his hands.

                “…This is Dzemael stonework.”  He whispered.  “The patterns and style-it’s an outdated method of carving, but this was done by a member of the House.”

                “You’re sure?”  Brucemont asked.

                “I’d…I’d have to find someone to test it, but I remember my lessons from the stonecutters’ workshop.”  Kauchiox said.  He turned the masonry over in his hands. 

                “Ser, if this is true, then it means…”

                “It means everything over the past thousand years has been a lie.”  Stephan said, his voice shaking.  “The Church, the war…all of it…”

                “What’s not a lie right now is the fact that we still have a duty to protect the city’s inhabitants.”  Brucemont said quickly. 

                “Why tell us?” Matthiaos blurted out.  Brucemont took a deep breath.

                “Because he wishes you to pick…”  He paused.  “The more ‘open-minded’ of us for an assignment.  He wishes a unit to head into Dravania to reconnoiter.  Obviously if this is going to be done, that means they will encounter things that are…contrary to the Church’s teachings.”

                “You must not think I’m very pious if you’re actually discussing this in front of me!”  Kauchiox said with a bitter laugh.  Brucemont gave him a wry smile.

                “If it helps any, I’m struggling with this too.”  He said.  “You and I both know how well this would go over in our House if it were made public.”

                “Like a goddsdamn lead balloon.”

                “Is there any danger of this getting out?”  Illaenne asked, sucking in a quick breath.

                “As of right now, you’re the only ones other than the Warrior of Light, her companion, the Azure and myself.”  Brucemont said.  “I wanted to keep this from you for a while, to break it slowly…but…”  He exhales.  “Not with preparations to take the battle right to Nidhogg at his haven.”  Matthiaos put his head in his hands, exhaling heavily.

                “I’m also assuming that he wants to set up patrol-strings in Dravania as well?”  He asked.

                “That would be an idea, yes.”  Brucemont inhaled, looking at each dragoon in turn.  He could see the shock and horror in their eyes, and he could relate.  Fault lines had now appeared in what was once stable ground, and if he was completely honest…

                _We’re Halone’s favored sinners.  Our power is classified as heresy, and for all we know, the Church only lets us live for what we’re able to do for the people.  If they ever had the mind to get rid of us, we wouldn’t even stand a chance…_

                “The Azure has told me that if any of you have questions…that his time is yours.”  The dragoons looked at him.  “And also…that this information, whatever he tells you…however we feel…our duty is the same.  That has not changed.”  Was it his imagination, or did he see flickers of relief on their faces?  “The safety of Ishgard’s people is our first and foremost priority.  Even if the Church itself were to come to us and demand otherwise, even if Halone were to come and bring punishment down upon us- _we stand firm._   Our spears, our lives are for those who cannot _fight_.”  He looked to Kauchiox, who nodded.

                “Death before dishonor.”  He said softly.

                “Death before dishonor.”  Stephan echoed.

                “Death before dishonor.”  Illaenne and Matthiaos repeated.  Brucemont nodded.

                “I would suggest you meet with the Azure first.”  He said.  “Take a day, process everything.  Then go though the men.  Pick those who have open minds and tight lips.  Kauchiox, can you ensure that stonework’s kept silent?”

                “I know who to go to.  There won’t be a single wark.”  Kauchiox said. 

                “Are you wanting them to bring anything back?” Stephan asked.  “Or look for anything in particular?”

                “The Azure could tell you better than I.”  Brucemont said. 

                “Does the Lord High Commander know of this?”  Illaenne asked.

                “Not yet.  This is Knight-Dragoon business first.  At some point it’s going to get to the Church, but before that happens…”        

                “Best to be prepared.”  Matthiaos said.  Brucemont nodded.


	10. Squires (2)

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> Even the squires among the Knights Dragoon are not immune to bribery and scandal...

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> (Small chapter this time with a few theories of note. Given the wealth of Ishgard's merchants and upper class, it wouldn't be too farfetched to believe that there has been a parent or two who tried to buy their child a path into the Knights Dragoon. There's also the idea of inter-House rivalry possibly coming into play, along with the notion that not even the Order itself could be immune to possible corruption, and then finally actions that could be taken to deal with a cowardly member (abit a lesser one).

                There was no announcement, no fanfare.  The Warrior of Light had left the city, apparently having business in Ul’dah.  But when she returned she and the Azure Dragoon were seen heading for the Skysteel docks, and then they were gone.  Rumor had it that with Tioman gone, the Azure Dragoon had asked the Warrior of Light for her help…surely with her power and the Eye, perhaps finally, finally, the dread wrym could be laid low. 

 

                Attempts had been made to restore normalcy in the Order even before Estinien had returned the first time.  Primarily there were squires who still needed training, though with the current state of the city the trainers were seeing first-hand on who could possibly make the cut and who wouldn’t.  Drachen-mail trials had resumed, and thanks to two hurried resupply runs the smithies of the Knights Dragoon could resume making the needed new sets of armor and carrying out repairs.   

 

                But as if by some strange law or maybe one of the other gods wanting to cause trouble, word of a new situation started to make the rounds of the Order...

 

\-------------------------

 

                “Austrert’s armor is up for grabs.”  The proclamation had every squire’s head turning.  “They’re kicking him out the building right now and blacklisting him not only from the Order, but the Temple Knights as well.”

                “What?!”  Reinhardt looked over, a bread roll in his mouth.

                “He didn’t listen to Frostwhisper’s orders about the wind-currents in the Central Highlands right now.  They’re shite because the Ixal summoned Garuda.  Frostwhisper said the squires were to stay grounded because only the dragoons can handle the winds when they’re like that, but Austrert didn’t listen.  He dragged his partner along, and then the two of them got caught up in a windstorm that came out of Natalan.  Then when his partner got hurt, Austrert left him behind instead of helping.”  Gasps of shock came from around the table.

                “What the seven hells?  Didn’t he think it wasn’t going to be noticed that he didn’t come back with his string-partner?”  Another squire exclaimed.

                “He went to one of the House Durendaire dragoons and asked if they could cover it up.  Told him that a House Hallienarte member was only good for one thing, and that was cannon fodder.  Apparently told the Durendaire dragoon that if he helped, he’d see about them getting ennobled.”

                “What…the fuck.”  Reinhardt’s string partner, a Duskwight elezen with dark brown hair said. 

                “What the hells did he think this place was?  The Scholasticate?”  A highlander hyur said, his hair shaved close to his scalp and tattoos all over his skin. 

                “He’s lucky he’s only getting kicked out and blacklisted.  House wars have started over less.”  Reinhardt said darkly, having taken a bite out of his bread roll.  He reached for the butter, and a silence fell over the dining-hall table. 

                “…I’m glad he’s gone.”  A small hyuran trainee said, breaking the silence.  Next to her, her string-partner nodded.  “I got a bad feeling from him—he was in my class briefly at the school.”

                “He liked killing shite way too much.”  Her partner added.  “And whenever he got in trouble-which was a lot, his father would come in and just pay everyone off with gil to stay silent and keep him in.”

                “What the seven hells?  Did he honestly think that shite was going fly if his son made it that far?”  Reinhardt’s partner exclaimed.  The two women shrugged.  Reinhardt wisely took another bite out of his bun, his teacher’s words flicking briefly though his mind.

                _The school is taught by Temple Knights who were dragoon want-to-bes that washed out.  The basics of what you need to know they’ll teach, but for anything else in our duty, they are no good._

                “I heard the First Lance’s wanting to order an investigation, just the problem is that everyone’s so busy preparing for the Horde attack.”

                “You two are like the only ones left from the school now that he’s gone.  Which is good, but also surprising?  I don’t think the trainers were expecting anyone from there to make it this far…”  Chuckles came from the two women.

                “We’re both stubborn and trained as hard as we could, even in our free-time.”

                “We were hoping that maybe we’d get noticed and chosen by a senior dragoon to become their squire, but alas…” 

                “No, they’re fucking picky as shite.”  The conversation started to turn from the possibly-now exiled Austret towards discussion of several senior dragoons and their personalities.  Reinhardt continued eating his food, listening in with one ear while he mulled over his teacher’s words and his own time at the school.  His own experience had boiled down to him just surviving every day, having to continually train to be the stronger, faster, and sometimes cleverer of his group.  Reinhardt also had to deal with having his family’s shame constantly thrown in his face and being used by the teachers to keep him from advancing.  It was a well-known fact among the students there that the school had problems, and something needed to be done…           

_But it’s not as if they can spare actual dragoons to do the teaching.  It’s hard enough to get them to stay as it is once they retire._


	11. Fracture (2)

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> An uneasy pall hangs over the city and over the Knights Dragoon...

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> (So this chapter and the next are a little tricky for me terms of theorycraft. It always seemed entirely too quick that Ishgard came under attack by the heretics shortly after Nidhogg's defeat, and while they do give an in-game explanation, I personally felt that the timing and structure could have been better laid out. The impression I was given in that questline when the WoL and Estinien return to the city is that Ishgard was in a deadlock with the heretics inside their gates. It felt off kilter to me, considering that the bulk of the military is in Ishgard itself and could have very easily mobilized to crush Shiva's forces. So I decided to offer a reason that could possibly explain how the scene felt, which is that possibly up until the gates were opened, the Temple Knight forces found themselves stretched thin and overworked by trouble cropping up all over the city. If this went on long enough, by the time Shiva's people invaded the city, the superior Temple Knights would be tired and overwhelmed in comparison to the possibly more-rested heretics.)

                An explosion of sound from a linkpearl made the dragoon look over.  His partner was growling in irritation, removing his helm and lifting a hand to his right ear.

                “Sorry, sorry.”  He removed the linkpearl.  “I’ve been listening to the Temple Knight chatter.  Buggers have had their hands full for the past sennight.”

                “Everyone’s had their hands full over the past sennight.  Hells, over the past fucking moon and a half.”  The second dragoon pulled his helm back on.

                “Aye, but something feels a bit off.  It’s been gnawing at me, so I thought listening in would provide some clues.” 

                “What the fuck did I tell you about fucking playing Inquisitor?”

                “Aye, aye.  It’s in my blood!  I can’t help it.”

 

\-------------

 

                Brucemont squinted at the paper.  Then he sighed in exasperation.

                “Will somebody please find Matthiaos and stab him?  Or even better, tell the squires that the first one who kills him gets his armor.  They’re young and hungry enough, surely one of them can beat him.”

                “Sir?”  The clerk asked. As if by magic, Matthiaos stuck his head though the door.

                “First Lance?  Do you have a…”  He trailed off at the look on Brucemont’s face, moving aside as the clerk quickly bowed and headed though the door at a gesture from the blue-haired elezen.  “What is it?”

                “Prostitutes and liquor are _**not**_ an acceptable expense request.  Do you want the Inquisition to come after us?”

                “It’s for Pendragon’s stag party!  We need to make sure it’s done properly this time!”  Matthiaos protested.  Then he blinked as a linkpearl on Brucemont’s desk went off.  The First Lance blinked, picking it up and holding it to his ear.  “Ser?”

                “Temple Knight pearl.”  Brucemont said.  “I know the city’s a mess, but they seem to have their hands even more full than normal for a situation like this.”

                “You too?”  Brucemont blinked, looking at Matthiaos, who had crossed his arms.  “Two of the Fortemps dragoons are playing amateur Inquisitor.   They’re saying that the Temple Knights have been responding more and more to random disturbances of the peace around the city.”

                “What kind of disturbances?”

                “Fighting, vandalism…”  Brucemont set down the pearl, listening. “The culprits seem to be mostly commonfolk from the Brume, but that doesn’t sound right.  Sure there’s a few rowdy ones here and there, but then it’s the merchants and a few spoiled brats from the nobility that cause trouble too.”

                “I sense another possible story about Count Edmont’s youngest.”  Brucemonet said wryly.

                “Surprisingly, he’s just been keeping to the taverns and out of trouble, praise Halone.”  Matthiaos said.  Brucemont tapped his fingers, thinking.

                “…Amateur Inquisitor, huh?”  He mused.  “Though there’s one factor you didn’t mention that’s surprising.  No word of any outsiders causing trouble.”

                “The minute it got to the public that Nidhogg was gathering his Horde, many them packed up and fled.  The only ones still around are adventurers willing to fight for some coin, but they’re generally under our House.”  Matthiaos answered.  “And we have pretty tight rules regarding their behavior.”   Brucemont nodded, a thoughtful look coming over his features.

                “…They should be at the Aery about now.”  He said softly.  Matthiaos exhaled, looking towards the office window.

                “…The winds feel strange, First Lance.”  Brucemont started at the sudden formality.  “And not because of the Horde.  Our dragons feel troubled, agitated.  There is danger…somewhere, but nobody can put a finger on it.”   The blue-haired elezen was silent for several moments, and then sighed.

                “You’re not the only one.”  He said.  Matthiaos looked up as Brucemont pushed himself up from the desk, striding over to a map of the city.  “I pulled on the one string I have in my House to find out about the initial defense plan the Holy See had.”  He closed his eyes.  “When they return, I need to speak to Estinien.”  Matthiaos started.

                “The rumors.  Were they…”

                “I need to speak to the Azure.”  Brucemont said.  He opened his eyes, and exhaled.  “In the meanwhile, see if we can’t spare one of the nosier…”  The dragoon linkpearl came to life in a torrent of sound.

                _City units respond, dragoon down!  I repeat, city units respond, dragoon down!_   Brucemont and Matthiaos froze, their eyes widening. _City units respond and report in to the Congregation on the double!  Medical unit to the Arc of the Worthy!  I repeat city units respond and report in to the Congregation, medical unit to the Arc of the Worthy!_


	12. Fracture (3)

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> Too late the Order finds that it's walked right into a trap, just as the Dravanian heretics invade the city...

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> (Continuation of the theorycraft from the previous chapter. As it's confirmed that the Heavens' Ward was responsible for opening the gates and allowing Shiva's people in, I thought also that it was strange that there's possibly no mention of the Dragoons in the situation. Surely one of them would have noticed what was going on with the gates, thus the scenario laid out in this chapter.0

                The mood in the Knight-Dragoon area of the Congregation was grim.  Two dragoons had been attacked while on their patrol-string within the city, and the perpetrator/perpetrators were nowhere to be found.  The rest of the city-stationed dragoons were grounded pending a judgement on whether their safety could be assured...

 

\----------------------

 

                A black-haired hyuran man in blood-stained medical robes limped out of a room.  Wiping his hands on a towel, he nodded to Brucemont, Kauchiox and Matthiaos.

                “She’ll live.”  He said.  The First Lance and the other two dragoons collectively sagged in relief.  “But she’ll have to be on the inactive roster for a while.  It’ll take her two moons to fully recover the blow damn near split her in two from the shoulder.  Halone had to be watching over her, it’s a miracle that it didn’t go near her spine.”

                “Blow?”  Brucemont repeated.

                “From a greataxe I suspect.  Or a greatsword.”  The healer frowned.  “Aetherically empowered as well, considering it sliced though her drachen mail like paper.”

                “ _Halone_.”  Kauchiox hissed.

                “What about Celeste, Bishop?”  Matthiaos asked.

                “Bone bruising, cracked ribs, and a broken shoulder.  She should still be awake.”

                “Matthiaos, go and update the Lord High Commander.”  Brucemont ordered.  “Kauchiox, update everyone else.  Tell them Arlette will live.”  He exhaled gustily.  “That should at least drop the tension level by a few degrees….”

                “Do we resume patrols?”  The Duskwight asked.  Brucemont considered the question, working his jaw in thought.

                “…After I speak with Celeste and the Lord High Commander, I’ll make a decision.”  He said.

 

 

                Illaenne gently wiped the other woman’s face with a cool cloth. 

                “Tell the First Lance what you just told me.”  She said soothingly.  Celeste looked up at Brucemont, her eyes puffy and bloodshot.  Her left shoulder was bandaged, and she was propped up against a mountain of pillows.  More bandages could be spotted beneath the healer’s gown she was dressed in.

                “We were coming up from the Old City.”  She began, voice cracking.  “Landed on Haldrath’s Way, and that’s when we felt it.”

                “It?” Brucemont repeated.

                “Something aetherical.  Powerful.  It was enough to make our dragons react.”  Celeste whispered. “At first, we thought the Warrior of Light had returned, but then we realized it wasn’t her.  She…she has wind-aether around her.  Whatever it was, it didn’t have wind-aether.”  The elezen woman swallowed.  “It was coming from the Arc, so we went to investigate.  The fog was coming in, and we didn’t see any sign of the Temple Knights.” 

                “They weren’t at their posts?”  Brucemont asked. 

                “No.  But then that wasn’t strange.  Before we dropped down into the Old City, we’d seen some of them rushing to deal with disturbances in the Brume.”  Celeste winced, and Illaenne moved to adjust a pillow.  “With everything that’s happened recently, we suspected the same thing had happened.  Arlette wanted to check and see if there was anyone on the Western Highlands side, so she went ahead.  I called to her, she stopped and turned around, and…” 

                “And?”  The First Lance prodded gently.  Celeste swallowed, trying to keep her composure but she was starting to shake, pressing a fist to her mouth.  Illaenne was quick to move, picking up a small vial of silver liquid.

                “Celeste, drink this.”  She ordered.  Brucemont started in surprise.           

                “Illeanne!”  Celeste had shakily taken the vial and downed its contents, closing her eyes with a whimper.  Illeanne looked back to Brucemont as she reclaimed the now-empty vial from the other elezen woman, standing and going over to him.

                “Sedative.”  She said softly.  “Trust me, she’s better than how she was.”  The drug was starting to take effect, as Celeste’s shuddering was beginning to subside. 

                “I…I remember red armor.”  She murmured.  “Red armor on a tall figure.  About the size of a statue.  It swung something large at me, and it felt like the ground was hitting me.  I went flying back….”

                “Did you see anything else?”  Brucemont urged.

                “…The helm.”  Celeste whispered.  “It looked…like it had a halo on it.”  Her eyes lifted to Brucemont’s own.  “Ar-Arlette.  Is she…?”  When the First Lance shook his head, Celeste broke down into tears of relief.

 

\----------------------

 

                “Her calling to Arlette like that probably saved her life.”  Brucemont said lowly as he and Illaenne left Celeste’s sickroom.  “Bishop said the blow almost split her torso in half.  She turned around, maybe started to take a step forward, and it changed the angle that her attacker was aiming at.”

                “A heretic, you think?”  Illaenne asked. 

                “Normally I’d say yes but our armor more can withstand their hits even when they transform.”  Brucemont replied.  “Not to mention it was a weapon that was used.  The heretics transform, they use aether, claw, bite, wing…what hurt them was a weapon.”  Illaenne frowned, biting her lower lip.  Then her eyes widened.

                “…They said it felt like the Warrior of Light, but it didn’t, because she practices Allagan summoning-and she has the powers of Garuda.  We all can pick up on that, Ser Wrymblood showed us how to identify her aether were we to encounter her on patrols.”  She said.  “But could it be one of the other people who follow her?  What do they call them? Companions?  They aid her in fights?  Maybe there’s a traitor among them?”

                “Doubtful.”  Brucemont said. _Size of a statue…with a halo on the helm?  With a large weapon, possibly a greataxe or a greatsword…why does that seem familiar to me?_ Next to him, Illeanne glanced out of the window.  She frowned and stopped.

                “What’s that?”  She asked.  Brucemont jerked to a stop, stepping back and peering out as well.  Night had fallen over Ishgard, and just below he could see a bit of flame, somebody walking around with a…

                “Hit the floor!”  Both dragoons threw themselves down towards the stone tiles-just as a flaming ball of pitch came flying though the window right where they were standing.  At the same time distant explosions were heard, and the dragoon linkpearl screamed back to life.

                _Explosion in the central training yard!  Armed forces are breaking into the main area of the Congregation and are heading this way!  All dragoons get in the air!  I repeat! Explosion in the central training yard, armed forces are breaking into the main area of the Congregation!  All dragoons get in the air immediately!_

                “Are you okay?!”  Brucemont scrambled to check over Illeanne, who was pushing herself up and shaking embers off her.

                “I’m fine, I’m fine-watch out!”  She pointed towards the fireball, which had landed near a tapestry.  Brucemont reacted by summoning a ray of frost, aiming it at the sphere and dowsing it.

                “Report!”  He barked into the linkpearl.  “This is the First Lance!  What’s going on?!”

                _Ser, we’re under attack!  Enemies have broken into the Temple Knight area of the Congregation and are setting it ablaze!  It’s…_ There was a pause.  _Ser, it’s the heretics! They have an army!_   Brucemont’s blood ran cold, and he and Illeanne stared at each other in horror.

                “How did they get inside?!”  Illaenne cried.

                _Reports are saying the gates were left open for them!_   Brucemont’s blood ran cold as the events of the past several hours-no, the past several weeks suddenly clicked into place.  When it came to the Arc of the Worthy, the patrolling Knights Dragoon served as a second pair of eyes to watch the gate.  But if the Temple Knights had been distracted, and the on-duty Dragoons removed…say by an attack on them, which would result in the current roster of city-patrols being grounded…

                “ ** _Get me the Lord High Commander now!”_**  

 

               


	13. Countdown (3)

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> As they fight to save Ishgard from Iceheart's army, the Knights Dragoon learn of Nidhogg's defeat...and welcome the now-ticking time-bomb that is Estinien Wrymblood back into their midst.

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> (Continuing from before. I mentioned the Old City in a previous chapter-it's how I think Ishgardians would possibly refer to the lower section of the city that's below the Brume/Steps of Faith and can be seen in artwork/ingame. Many old cities IRL have large underground areas that were inhabitable, and it stands to reason that Ishgard could be the same. There are also one or two areas blocked off in the Brume that seemingly lead downwards, sooo...
> 
> I also figured how technically in-game, this is how the attack on the city could have been still going on by the time the WoL/Ysyale/Estinien make it back to Ishgard. Even with the manacutters, it still would take a day/two days at minimum to make it back, unless Estinien and the WoL decided to teleport (which then begged the problem of Ysayle). I figured it wasn't far out of the realm of reason to suggest that the heretics could have made use of a possible system of passages that are within the city itself-ones that probably not even the Temple Knights/High Houses knew about and therefore could not offer a good defense. 
> 
> Last but not least...inner dragons and Estinien. This is a theorycraft I'm going to continue to slowly expand upon over the next couple of chapters, but I feel that it should be noted that even Estinien notes that he needs to get his armor reforged due to Nidhogg's rancor. Given how drachen armor is created, I would feel that the entire Knights Dragoon would be aware of just what Estinien would be wearing-and react accordingly.)

                The fighting continued all night, the next day, and into the morning after.  The heretics were employing hit-and-run tactics, going after certain areas of the city and engaging the worn-out Temple Knights before retreating.   As the lower regions of the city were filled with dozens of hiding places for any number of bodies to go to, the city defenders found themselves hard pressed.  Even the High Houses found that they were having trouble-their own personal armies also having been worn out in helping the Temple Knights.  The only relative bastion of relief were the Church buildings, though it was anyone’s guess when trouble would possibly crop up there.

 

                The Knights Dragoon found that they could only do so much themselves.  Heretic attacks were launched at certain locations where they would normally patrol—and being relatively fresh, units would find themselves aiding Temple Knights in battle.  More often than not however, the dragoons found themselves turning into rescuers…

 

\-----------------

 

_Coldfire and Frostwhisper are coming in with two more injured!_

                “Godsdamnit—reroute them!”  Brucemont snapped, landing hard on a snowy ledge.  It was late afternoon, and he was out on reconnaissance.  He straightened, hand to his right ear.  “If you’re carrying wounded, do not go to the Congregation! They’re at full capacity!  Get them over to Skysteel, they opened up one of their warehouses-”

_Skysteel can’t take any more!  They’re stuffed with civilians-_

_Durendaire’s Marshal says they can take another fifty bodies before they’re overwhelmed, swing up there if you can!_

_Where the hell are they all coming from?! This is the same group that attacked the Croizer a bell ago!  Where did they disappear to?!_

_First Lance, permission for my unit to head to the Old City?!_

“Negative!”  Brucemeont snapped.  The Old City was the term given to the lower half of Ishgard that started directly underneath the Brume and ended right at the perpetual aetherstorm that raged around the mountain.  Legend had it that it had been devastated in a Dravanian attack, resulting in the inhabitants having to move upwards and create what was now the current city.  Rumor had it that the Old City had numerous passageways that extended in and around Ishgard proper, but it had never been explored.  The Knights Dragoon kept to the outer edges of the ruined underground whenever on patrol.

                _Ser! That’s probably how the heretics are-_

“It may be how they’re getting about but we have no intelligence on the area and I can’t afford to spare you!  Continue doing what you’re doing-” Brucemont trailed off, his eyes widening as that _other_ part of him suddenly roared into life, pulling his attention away from the physical realm.  A warning growl reverberated down his spine, and Brucemont gasped as the dragon-blood inside him started to burn.

                _He is here!_ Brucemont shook his head, trying to claw his way back to reality.  Briefly the image of his inner dragon pulling away into a darkened space flashed before his eyes.  _Do not go near, do not go near-_

_First Lance?  First Lance!_

“Wh-what?! What is it, report!”

                _He’s back!  The Azure is back!  With the Warrior of Light!_ Before Brucemont could respond, Estinien’s voice came over the Knight Dragoon linkpearl.

                _All units, report!_

It took Brucemont close to an hour to make his way back to the Congregation, diverting to help a group of injured Temple Knights.  During that time the fighting had ceased, and word was quickly spreading that Iceheart herself was in the city and had ordered her troops to stand down.  It had already been announced on the linkpearl of Nidhogg’s defeat, and the device had nearly shortened out from the volume of the cheers.  Yet the First Lance found that he couldn’t take any pleasure in the knowledge of the great wyrm's death.  Relief, yes, but anything else…  The whispers of his inner dragon came back as well, and Brucemont landed in the main courtyard of the Congregation.   Nearly all of his brothers and sisters who were on city duty were in the square, and heads turned to glance at him.  But instead of joy or celebration, everyone was…grim.  Brucemont blinked.

                _What in the world?_ His squire hurried over to him, bearing a waterskin and a breadroll.

                “The Azure wants to see you.”  He said.  Brucemont blinked at the younger elezen, the boy’s skin was pale.

                “Aubaut?  What’s wrong?”  Aubaut swallowed.

                “…It’s the Azure, ser.”  He said.  “You…well…” 

                “Brucemont!”  Estinein’s voice rang out across the courtyard.  The blue haired-elezen lifted his head, lips parting to respond.  He froze, eyes widening as his dragon shrieked an alarm, setting his blood afire again.  “My office.  Now.”

                _Halone save me!_   Brucemont heard himself automatically reply, his feet starting to take him over to where Estinien was standing.  But his mind was reeling in shock from what his otherworldy senses were telling him, and what his eyes were seeing.  The armor of the Azure Dragoon was normally jet black—a bit odd considering the title, but nobody had ever questioned it.  But what Brucemont was seeing wasn’t black drachen mail-no, it was a dull crimson red.  From helm to greaves the mail was the same shade.  And from the power that was coming off of it…sheer rancor.  The First Lance had only ever felt energy like that before only once…and that had been the trial for the title of Azure Dragoon.  His inner dragon hissed and pulled back into the shadows, and Brucemont found himself fleetingly wishing that he could follow.


	14. Politics (2)

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> On the heels of Nidhogg's death, the Knights-Dragoon find themselves watching a political nightmare begin...

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> (Continuation of theorycraft from the previous chapters. I took a little creative liberty in just how, when, and where the news of the truth of the Dragonsong War was broken...it never really felt right to me that Ser Aymeric and the others learned more or less in...the Fortemps Manor drawing room. <.< I also spaced out the timing some, because seriously...having come all the way back from the Churning Mists, having just defeated Nidhogg, and dealing with the invasion of Ishgard by Iceheart's people...somebody needed a few hours of sleep -someplace-, yo.)

                Stephan sagged against Illaenne.  The elezen blinked in surprise, looking down at the hyur.

                “Up all night?”  She asked.

                “I got cornered into playing babysitter.”  The Durendaire dragoon said, rubbing a palm over his eyes.  “Making sure Iceheart’s people and ours don’t start stabbing at each other.  You can guess how well that went.”  With a sigh, he pushed himself up.  “Not to mention that I’ve been twitchy ever since seeing the Azure.”

                “Everyone’s twitchy after seeing him.”  Illaenne said.  With a sigh, she reached for the teapot and refilled her cup.  “Brucemont said that he managed to get Nidhogg in his remaining eye and then ripped it out.”  Stephan winced, making a face as he reached out for his own mug.  “That’s when his armor was bloodied.”

                “Well, please Halone he gets rid of it soon.”  The hyur poured himself some tea and lifted the mug to his lips, taking in a few healthy swallows.  “He keeps running around in that and some of the newly-awakening squires might get set off.  I am really not in the mood to show some hatchling who’s the boss…”  He trailed off as a serving girl came over to him and Illaenne.

                “Ser Jienette?  I have a message from Master Lucian.  He says Ser Matthiaos has gone to confession, and so can’t meet you in the training hall.”  Stephen went very still, and Illaenne quickly put down her tea.

                “Thank you for letting me know.”  She said.  The servant bobbed in a quick curtsey and moved onto the next table. 

                “I’ll go first.”  Stephan said in a low whisper.  “Follow me in seven minutes?”

                “Aye.”  Illaenne said.  Outwardly she was the picture of calm, but internally her heart was beginning to race, nerves twisting her stomach.  Matthiaos was never one for the more formal church rites-and any reference to him participating in such was code for something major happening in House Fortemps. 

                _Halone bless us, what now?_

Their emergency meeting point was a shadowed alcove in the Jeweled Croizer.  Matthaios and Kauchiox were already waiting by the time Stephan and Illaenne arrived, the former pushing a cloth hood from off his head.

                “We have a serious problem.”  He said without introduction.  “The Warrior of Light, Count Fortemps, the Silver Fuller, the Lord High Commander, the First Commander, and the Azure all met in Count Fortemps’ office this morning for several bells.  Take a guess at what they talked about.”  Illaenne sucked in a breath.

                “Gods be good.”  She said.

                “The Lord High Commander left one bell ago and headed straight to the Vault.  The First Commander is at the Congregation, and we just came from meeting Ser Wyrmblood.”  Kauchiox said, his face grim. 

                “He’s doing what?!”  Stephan exclaimed, and then quickly put a hand to his mouth, looking around.  Lowering his voice, he continued.  “What business does he have at the Vault?!”

                “Confronting the Archbishop.”  Matthiaos’ answer made both Illaenne’s and Stephan’s jaws drop. 

                “Has he gone mad?  He’ll be arrested! They’ll try him for treason and…”  Stephan trailed off as the full implications hit.  “Halone bless us.  There’s going to be chaos.”

                “There’s going to be more than that.”  Kauchiox said darkly. “If the Lord High Commander doesn’t return from the Vault in another two bells, the First Commander, the Warrior of Light, the Silver Fuller and Ser Estinien will begin to make plans to retrieve him.  By any means necessary.”

                “They’re going to break into the Vault?”  Illaenne whispered, shocked.

                “They may have no choice.  The Temple Knights are going to split into two if the Lord High Commander gets arrested, and the Houses are going to do the same.  And if the rumor about him and the Archbishop is true, then that’s only going to kick off even more trouble.”  Matthiaos replied.

                “Add in the fact that the Archbishop and the Heaven’s Ward haven’t inspired much in the way of confidence for anyone in the military with a working brain ever since the Horde started to prepare to attack the city and it’s going to be ugly.” Kauchiox added.

                “So, what are we to do?”  Stephan asked.

                “Call in every single one of our brothers and sisters right now in the city and warn them that there’s going to be trouble.  And if it does break out-we’re neutral.”  Matthiaos said.  “No taking sides.  For those of us outside the city-if they’re resupplying, they need to do so now and get to their rest-camps.  Direct orders from the Azure himself.”

                “Does the First Lance know?”  Illaenne asked.

                “Ser Wrymblood was calling for him when we left, so it’s more than likely he’s about to find out.”  Kauchiox said.  “Pray to Halone that the Archbishop sees reason, and nothing happens…”


	15. Politics (3)

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> Aymeric is arrested, and Estinien dictates where the Order will stand...

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> (This was...hard for me to write, considering I was going waayyy out into theorycraft territory! Anyway. Please enjoy.)

                It was past the third bell of the afternoon when the Heavens’ Ward made a move.  Estinien and Brucemont were deep in planning and discussion—despite Nidhogg’s death, his Horde still seemed to be relatively put together, and so the Knights Dragoon had to adjust accordingly.  The Azure Dragoon would shoot glances at the chronometer every so often, and Brucemont would glance sideways at Estinien’s armor on the nearby stand.  After the fifth look-over, Brucemont turned his head back only to catch Estinien looking at him.

                “A-ah…”  The white-haired elezen shook his head.

                “It’s alright.  I plan on having that purified and reforged soon.  I know it’s…”  He paused.  “Disturbing.”

                “Disturbing is an understatement, ser.”  Brucemont said, offering a wry grin.  “But if anything, it shows that you were the right choice to be the Azure.  I wouldn’t have been able to withstand the Eye and that at the same time…none of us would.”

                “You give yourself far too little credit, Brucemont.  You’ve survived attacks and encounters that have felled the lesser among us, and you’ve done an admirable job at keeping us lot in order.”  Estinien said, holding up a finger.  “In fact, I…”  He trailed off as there was a knock on the door.  “Enter!”  The wood creaked, and Aubaut stuck his head around the door.

                “Sers.  There’s…there’s someone from the Heavens’ Ward here.”  His voice trembled.  Estinien and Brucemont both glanced at each other.  “He wants to see you, my lord Wrymblood.  Immediately.”

                “Keep him where he is.”  Estinien ordered.  “We’ll be down shortly.”

                “Courage, Aubaut.”  Brucemont said, his voice firm, but gentle.  “Don’t get rattled.”  The younger elezen nodded, pulling back and closing the door.  Estinien glanced towards the timepiece.

                “…Two bells exactly.”  He said, rising.  Brucemont followed suit.  “Everyone has been warned?”

                “Aye.  Everyone who can be on a string is out on it, and anyone who’s off duty knows what to do if they’re approached.”  The blue-haired elezen said.  Estinien nodded.

                “Let’s see what’s going on, shall we?”

 

\----------

 

                A tall, blond haired elezen in the blue and white armor of the Heavens’ Ward stood in the empty mess hall, arms crossed.  Hearing the footsteps of Estinien and Brucemont, he turned around.

                “Ser Wrymblood.  Brucemont, hello.”  He bowed.

                “Ignasse.”  Estinien said shortly, coming to a stop and crossing his arms, Brucemont standing alongside him.  “What brings you down from the Vault to mingle among us heathens?”  Ignasse offered a weak smile.

                “You’re still as prickly as ever.”  He said.  “My purpose is both good and bad, I fear.  But first, the Archbishop wishes to offer you his personal congratulations on the defeat of our people’s oldest and most deadly enemy.  Be assured when this dreadful business is over, you will be well rewarded for your bravery and dedication.”

                “Dreadful business?”  Brucemont repeated.  Ignasse looked at him.

                “Yes.  It was discovered today that the former Lord High Commander has been in league with Iceheart’s followers.”  He shook his head.  “Possibly there could be others in the Temple Knights as well, and even the High Houses.”  Only experience kept Brucemont from boggling at the blatant lie, and Estinien narrowed his eyes.  “As such, I’ve come to inform you that as of now the Congregation, consisting of the Temple Knights and the Knight-Dragoon order, will be under the command of the Heavens’ Ward-”

                “Whatever game the Church and the High Houses are playing with each other, the Order will not be taking any part in.”  Estinien’s voice was pure frost, the tone making Ignasse check. 

                “I beg your pardon?”

                “You heard me.  Whatever spat the Church and the High Houses are having, we are not having any part of it.  That includes any orders given by any member of the Church, including you, yours, and the Archbishop.”  Brucemont glanced around-yep, a few of their brothers and sisters had come out of the woodwork to eavesdrop.  Ignasse’s eyes narrowed.

                “This is no game.  You should take note, Wrymblood, that your name has come up as a person of interest-”

                “Matthiaos!”  Estinien called.  The Fortemps dragoon appeared almost out of thin air, wraithlike.  His eyes held a draconic gleam as he looked at the twelfth member of the Heavens’ Ward.

                “Azure.”

                “Master Vesnaint has overstayed his welcome in a place of sanctuary.”  Had not the situation been so serious, Brucemont would have choked laughing at the look on Ignasse’s face.  “Show him the door.”  The blond elezen recovered, narrowing his eyes at Estinien.

                “I can make my own way out.”  Turning on a white-armored heel, he paused.  “But expect there to be repercussions, Wrymblood.”  The room was silent as he left, and then Estinien cleared his throat.

                “Everyone, back as you were.  Matthiaos, Brucemont, with me.”  He ordered.

 

\--------------

 

                “Matthios, I need you to go to Count Fortemps and warn him.”  The trio had returned to Estinien’s office, and the white-haired elezen was starting to quickly strap on the tainted armor.  “If they already had a story like that together then that means they’re making their move right now.”

                “What are you going to do?”  Matthiaos asked.

                “Find the First Sword and the Warrior of Light.”  Estinien reached for his Gale Bog, strapping it onto his back.  “Brucemont-”

                “Anyone attempting to violate the sanctuary order is shown the door with extreme prejudice.  You are aware that some family members may be coming-” Pulling his helm on, Estinien moved to the window and opened it.

                “As long as the order for neutrality is obeyed, I don’t care who comes here for safety.”  He said.  “I’ll contact you by pearl when I know more.”


	16. Grief

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> A knight of Ishgard falls, and the effects ripple into the Knights Dragoon.

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> (The formatting messed up for some reason, and I couldn't correct it. Short and sweet chapter.)

Rain rarely fell in Ishgard.  Yet the day was overcast and gloomy, and rain had started to fall in the early hours of the morning and showed no signs of letting up.  To Ileanne, it seemed as if it was a possible sign from Halone, the Fury expressing her grief over what was happening to her city, and the events of the Vault.  With a sigh, the Hallienarte dragoon removed her helm.  A faint smile crossed her face as Coldfire handed her a towel.

“My thanks.”  The ice-blue dragoon nodded, pulling off his helm to reveal messy blond hair and brown eyes. 

“Laundry’s got plenty of those warming up for everyone today.”  He said.  “City-patrol’s horrid, the rain’s freezing on the perches and rooftops.  Plus, we’re down some people, but the same for the outside strings…”  Ileanne sighed and nodded, rubbing the warm towel over her face.

“The Fortemps dragoons might take a while to return.”  She said softly.  Memories from two nights ago drifted to the forefront of her mind.

 

 

_Matthiaos howling, tears pouring down his face.  Kauchiox hugging his friend tightly, trying to push him backwards as Matthiaos tried to push forward, arms flailing.  Another Fortemps dragoon was wailing in the arms of a Temple Knight, and faintly Illaenne could hear a voice screaming over her linkpearl.  The Warrior of Light, her clothes torn and bloody, tears pouring down her face.  A battered and bleeding Ser Aymeric being supported by Lucia, whose eyes were red-rimmed.  Estinien bringing up the rear-his body stiff and tight with tension, carrying a broken shield._

_And in front of them, being carried on a bier by two Temple Knights…Illeanne froze, horror rising inside of her as she took in the scene—was the Silver Fuller.  A gaping wound was in his midsection, and Illeanne just knew from experience that it had punched though completely, front to back.  Blood was everywhere-on his armor, his lips, the bier—even dripping onto the stones of the Hoplon.  As she watched, another Temple Knight hurried over with a white cloth to quickly throw over the body, and Illeanne briefly got a glimpse of Haurchefant’s face.  A look of peace was on the silver-haired Elezen’s features._

“-you know who’s gone?”  Coldfire’s question snapped Illaenne back to reality, and she shook her head to clear it.

“Ah…sorry.  Matthiaos…I think he’ll be taking a day or two, Cobalt might come back, I’m not too sure.   Snowsinger is probably going to follow Matthiaos, and the others…”  Ileanne trailed off.  Haurchefant had been friends with several of the House Fortemps dragoons, who were understandably taking his loss hard.  “I did see them at the funeral.”  Coldfire nodded.

“They say Count Edmont’s taking it hard.”  He said quietly.   With a sigh, Illeanne started to remove her gauntlets. 

“Little too late on his part.”  She muttered.  “I’m going to stretch out for a bit.”  Coldfire nodded, and IIeanne headed for the stairs.  Like most dragoons, she had a small room for herself in the dormitories.  It was still early in the afternoon yet, and Illeanne found that she was alone as she made her way into the living quarters and towards her door.  She paused for several moments, then unlocked it, stepping inside quickly.  A shadowy figure twitched as she shut the door behind her, and then ventured into the weak light that was coming through a window.

“I…I’m sorry.”  Matthiaos’ voice was raspy, and his eyes were bloodshot.  Ileanne didn’t say anything, setting her gaunlets to the side.  “I know…you don’t want…I shouldn’t be here…but…”  The female elezen didn’t respond, simply spreading out her arms.

“Come here.”  She said.  Grief rippled over Matthiaos’ features, and he staggered towards her.  Illeanne didn’t say anything, only pulling Matthiaos close as he fell into her arms.  Closing her eyes, she pressed a kiss to his forehead.

 

 

 

 


	17. Tension (1)

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> As the ceasefire casts an unsteady calm over Ishgard, the Knights Dragoon learn of a new threat...and the stress and strain finally begin to show.

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> (Right. I felt it odd that there never really was any serious mention of the Empire's arrival in the Sea of Clouds...but I believe it would be problematic for the Ishgardians, given the history of the Empire up to that time. Ishgard being politically unstable [and possibly dragon-free] presents a rather tempting target for the Imperials. It also potentially puts stress on the Knights Dragoon, as they literally were Ishgard's only version of an aerial scouting/attack force. So far we have no evidence in the game as of yet of there being anything otherwise [while I know the Domans possibly could be counted but that seems to be restricted only to the tribes of the Steppe, Hien's actions in Ala Mhigo aside].
> 
> So at this point, the Knights Dragoon are dealing with revelations coming from their people in Dravania, namely the presence of a dragonflight that wanted nothing to do with the war and having a settlement rather relatively close to Coerthas, along with physical evidence that the history of Ishgard was basically a construct of lies, backlash of the events of Aymeric's imprisonment/the Vault, Nidhogg's Horde seemingly still organized, possibly gearing up for a major attack still, whatever-the-hell-vibes are coming off of Estinien's armor, and now possibly the Empire making a move. I think it's safe to say that the stress -was- starting to rear it's ugly head.)

                An uneasy pall had descended upon the city.  Aymeric had moved quickly to take the Archbishop’s place and restore order to Ishgard, issuing a gag order to the Church and Congregation when it came to the events of the Vault.  To explain the absence of the Heavens’ Ward, it was given out that they had gone on a holy pilgrimage under the orders of the Archbishop in thanks for Nidhogg’s defeat.  As for the Archbishop, it was said that he had decided to withdraw from the public for a spiritual retreat.  Haurchefant’s death (for now) was said to have been the result of a brief insurrection within the Congregation over the ceasefire between the Holy See and the heretics.  But not even the most enforced of edicts could stop gossip and rumors.  When it was learned that the Warrior of Light had left for the Sea of Clouds, and the Knights Dragoon were undergoing official surveys into Dravania, it only added even more fuel to the fire…

 

                Kauchiox exhaled, reaching for a mug of tea as he read over the reports in front of him.  Maenne and her unit had been the ones charged with the ‘official’ excursion into Dravania.  A companion of the Warrior of Light had accompanied them, which had turned out to possibly be a good idea.

                “There’s still Horde activity going on.”  He said, taking a sip from the mug.  “They’re still organized-Maenne’s unit almost walked into an ambush shortly after their arrival.”

                “Which means probably one of Nidhogg’s offspring now has control over them.”  Stephan said, frowning at his own set of papers.  “Could probably be starting to prepare for another attack.”  He looked at the Duskwight.  “Anything from the Holy See about…?”

                “Foaming at the mouth to get their hands on the reports.”  Kauchiox exhaled.  “The Lord High Commander’s holding them off, but I suspect Charibert’s people might pull some…”  The sound of running footsteps made both men look up.  A ginger-haired squire, his armor denoting that he was a senior-trainee skidded to a halt in front of the two, saluting.

                “Sers!  You’re…you’re…”  He panted, trying to catch his breath.

                “Oi, you’re Pendragon’s newling.”  Kauchiox said in surprise.  “What’s got you running through here with jellyfish in your pants?”  The teenager sucked in a breath.

                “Senior dragoons are to report to the First Lance right now!”  He got out, voice raspy.  “A report’s come in from the Sea of Clouds.  Silver cereluem’s been spotted, sers!”  Kauchoix and Stephan both froze, staring at the squire.

                “…Silver cereluem?”  Stephan repeated.  “Squire, are you sure…” 

                “From my master himself!”  The teen watched as both men exploded from their seats and raced towards the door.

 

\--------------------

 

                “ _GARLEANS ARE RUNNING AROUND IN THE SEA OF CLOUDS AND WE’RE ONLY JUST NOW FINDING OUT ABOUT THIS?!_ ”  The bellow greeted Stephan and Kauchiox as they hurried into Estinien’s office.

                “Frostwhisper, a little sweiving louder, eh?  Make sure the See can hear you!” 

                “Settle down, settle down!”  Brucemont snapped.  Kauchiox winced as he shut the door, glancing in-between the press of bodies.  He spotted Matthiaos standing just off to the side of the Azure’s desk, and Illaenne was a few fulms away. 

                “Frostwhisper, quiet.”  Brucemont ordered.   “Pendragon, continue.”  A black-haired hyuran man in cobalt armor shook his head.

                “That was the entirety of it, ser.”  He said.  “I was heading back when I picked up the call from the Ironworks ship, they ran into it too.”

                “Ran into what?”  Stephan asked.

                “An Imperial warship.”  Brucemont said.  A hush fell over the room. “And based on Pendragon’s description, the same type that fell to the dragons’ king at Silvertear.”  Soft gasps and stunned stares met this pronouncement. 

                “How in Halone’s name did they even…”  Illaenne broke the silence, her skin pale and eyes wide.  “We-we would have noticed…”

                “We don’t have patrols for the _entire_ region.”  Another dragoon commented.  Pendragon nodded.

                “They were on a western track.”  He said.  Striding over to a map that was on Brucemont’s wall, he looked to the First Lance, who nodded.  Picking up a pencil, the hyur started to draw arrows on the parchment.  “Ironworks reported them staying on it, away from the Sea.  My guess is that they came in through the northern islands.”

                “That makes sense.”  Matthiaos said, striding over to the map.  “We’ve no information on that section of the Sea of Clouds, and it would take three moons to at least get something usable.”

                “Do you know if they dropped off any soldiers?”  Another dragoon asked.  Pendragon glanced towards Brucemont again.  The elezen cleared his throat.

                “An Ironworks airship is supposed to be returning within several bells with…some captives.”  He said.  He quickly held up a hand to quell any chatter.  “I don’t know all the details, but the Azure is meeting with the Lord High Commander now.”

                “Do you think they were waiting for Nidhogg’s defeat?”  Stephan asked, a realization suddenly dawning on him.  “Isn’t that how they took Ala Mhigo?”  Then he went silent as Brucemont shot him a glare that could peel skin.

                “We do not know anything yet, and it’s a waste of energy to make assumptions.”  The First Lance’s tone was glacial.  Then he exhaled.  “But…I won’t deny that could be a worry.  No one’s heard from the Empire for a very long time now, and this sighting is troublesome.  I called you all because it’s going to be an automatic given that we now have to factor this into our planning.”  Low groans and soft curses rippled through the room.

                “Ser, how in the seven hells can we do anything?!”  A Dzemael dragoon exclaimed.  “We can’t take on any more work, we’re stretched thin as it is!”

                “Aye!  It’s going to be hard enough adding in Dravanian patrols but now the Empire?  We don’t have the manpower!” 

                “If we tap the senior squires and the first-years…”  Brucemont held up a hand again as the chatter resumed, raising his voice.  “If we tap the senior squires and the first-years-- I don’t like it either-- but if we assign them temporarily to watch out for any Imperial movements, it will give us some breathing room until we can figure out something a bit more permanent.”

                “You can’t give newlings that sort of stuff, ser!”  
                “But we can’t afford to put seniors on it either!”  Matthiaos snapped.  Then he bared his teeth as the other dragoon growled at him, and Illaenne quickly stepped into the fray.

                “Everyone just calm down!”  She snapped.  “Look.  We’re all tired.  Many of us are heartsick and grieving.”  The room fell silent at her words.  “We’re all doing the best we can.  This is just one more obstacle that we have to overcome—and let’s be honest, how many of us have had it in the back of our minds that after Nidhogg was defeated, that our spears might be turning towards the Empire next?”

                “We’re being caught with our fucking pants down.”  Came a comment.  Illaenne snorted.

                “Oh, like we’re not used to that?”  She said.  Wry chuckles rippled throughout the group, breaking the tension.  Brucemont smiled, then sighed.

                “The Lord High Commander and the Azure know we’re being run ragged.”  He said.  “If we were to ask it, you know some of the Temple Knights could be handed this duty…but I know, we all know, we wouldn’t feel comfortable with it.”  Soft murmurs of agreement.  “The sky is our domain, and if the Empire is turning its’ gaze towards us…we are the only aerial defense.  Praise Halone that Nidhogg’s defeated and while the Horde seems to still be a problem, they’re being quiet enough now that we can try to at least figure out something.”  Heads nodded, and Brucemont continued. “I should also add, we don’t know anything for sure until the captives come to the Congregation and can be questioned.  Once we have that information, then we can make more solid plans.”  He looked around.  “Agreed?”

                “Aye sir!”


	18. Squires (3)

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> Two squires and two first-year dragoons get a chance to explore a Castrum...

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> (Andd here's a small interlude about Castrum Aquilonis! And interestingly, construction started on it -after- the Calamity, according to the lore. Then it got abandoned due to the weather, but it's never brought up in Ishgard or Coerthas [as far as I've been able to determine.] It's a mystery on who ordered it constructed as well, as Nael was...well, presumed dead and Gaius was presumably preparing for his return to Eorzea.
> 
> Also it is lore in game that noble weddings in Ishgard can and do get violent. Figured the GoT reference wouldn't hurt!)

                Reinhardt squatted down on the pavement, running his fingers over it. Lifting his hand, he rubbed his fingers together and watched the dirt and grime cake off and fall to the ground.  In the back of his mind he could hear the whispers of his slowly-wakening other self, mixing with the murmur of the wind in his ears.  The air was stale, filled with the smell of mildew and rust.

                “Well?”  Reinhardt rose, dusting off his hands.

                “Nobody’s been in here for moons!”  He called.  “Hell, cycles!  You didn’t need my talent to tell you that!”  Armor clinked, and a elezen dressed in newly-minted drachen mail came walking over.

                “I’m not the one who gave out this assignment.  I just got partnered with you and dipshite over there.”  He said, jerking a thumb toward Reinhardt’s partner. 

                “Aaayyy, fuck you.”  Arsune said, flipping the other elezen the finger.  Reinhardt snorted, looking around the building.

                “I’ve always passed by here on patrols with my teacher, but never got a chance to go in.”  He said.  The trio were inside the main building of Castrum Aquilonis, in the southernmost reaches of Coerthas.  “They seriously were building this after the Calamity?”

                “Yup.”  The drachen-clad elezen crossed his arms, looking around. “I remember my mother talking to my father about this.  The Holy See’s trying to get people out of the countryside and the fortifications, and then suddenly, this thing popped up on the horizon.  There was a call to take the army and kill the bastards, but they couldn’t spare anyone.  By the time they could get enough troops together and headed over here, the cold had really set in, and the Imperials were gone.”  He paused, putting a hand to his ear as his linkpearl went off.  “Hold on a moment…”  Reinhardt nodded, moving to stand next to Arsune.

                “I thought you were going to be out of the city.”  He said, voice low.

                “I thought so too.  But whatever the hell the Lord High Commander’s doing to keep the Inquisition in check must be working, because apparently it’s still safe for me to be around.”  Arsune answered in an equally low tone.  The Duskwight had accidently ingested dragon-blood during a fight with a dragon while on patrol with his teacher and as such, was struggling to deal with a sudden boost of power to his newly-awakening inner dragon.  He gestured.  “What do you think about all of this?”

                “The Empire?”  Reinhardt answered.  Blowing out a breath, he looked around.  “Dunno.”  He turned his head, catching the other elezen walking over to them.

                “That was Ovrant.  Nothing’s outside, unless you count monster-shite.”  He said.  “This patrol-string is going to suck.”

                “Maybe not so much if the Empire does pass back though here?”  Arsune offered.  The other elezen shook his head.

                “I doubt that.”

                “You two are fucking lucky, you get to at least still stick to the city!”  Another first-year dragoon stuck their head through the entrance.  “At least remember us with the gossip over what’s really going on, aye?”

                “Ovrant!”  The first dragoon scolded.

                “Whaat?  Look, we all know what’s really going on.  The Lord High Commander’s covering up something big.”  Ovrant dropped his voice.  “They said the Heavens’ Ward and the Archbishop fled the city, and the Silver Fuller was trying to stop them.”

                “Stop fucking spreading rumors!”

                “I don’t know…”  Arsune said, rubbing the back of his neck.  “Haven’t you all really thought on why the Church isn’t kicking up a bigger fuss over what’s going on?”

                “Not really, because it seems the Lord High Commander’s got them by the short ones.”

                “Yeah, but what exactly?”  Arsune pressed.  “Consider the Inquisition—hell, the Grand Inquisitor’s people!”  The others fell silent.  “Only an intercession from Halone could make that lot fucking stand still!”

                “I can testify to that.”  Reinhardt said softly.  “Lord Pendragon and his fiancée are rushing to get everything done for their wedding.  Any opposition’s fallen by the wayside with everything that’s going on.”

                “When is it?”  Reinhardt racked his brain.

                “The Ul’dahn ceremony is the next fortnight.”  He said.  “Count Fortemps has already ordered a wedding reception.  Then a fortnight after that, the full formal ceremony at the Twelve-temple in Gridania.”

                “Huh?  Why not here?  Or are they still hung up on her being an outsider and the whole coup?”  Ovrant asked.

                “That, but more so that Lord Pendragon’s afraid of the whole thing turning into a red wedding.”  Reinhardt said.  All three elezen winced in unison.

                “Say no more!”  Weddings in Ishgard had a high chance of turning into murderous affairs, with families/enemies seeking to settle grudges. 

                “Nuptials aside…”  Ovrant looked around.  “You two had best head on out and make a report.  Pray that we’ll get off this shit-assignment soon, huh?”

                “Hey, at least you’re living a little while longer.”  Arsune said.

                “I’d like to actually get some proper dragon-fighting in and win some honor!”  Reinhardt turned towards the exit, tossing up a wave.

                “We’ll let you know what’s happening!”  He called out.


	19. Sex and Politics

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> A wedding reception brings a brief respite to some members of the Order.

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> (A possible look at the implications of a noble dragoon wedding! Also credit to an FFXIV buddy of mine, Laurentiox, for Dzemael population problems and scheming!)

Matthiaos helped himself to several chicken-legs as Stephan looked around the room.

“It must be so nice to be a favorite vassal house.” The hyur said. “Gods, when Durendaire’s own pet got married he didn’t get anything half as nice as this.”

“That’s because your liege lord is cheap.” Matthiaos said around a mouthful of meat. Stephan shot the half elezen/half hyur a dirty look.

“I can very easily rectify the lack of violence at this party so far, just so you know.” His voice was dry. Matthiaos cackled, reaching for a goblet of wine. “Pendragon would understand, I’ve no ill will towards him or his bride.” Kauchiox came up from behind, spearing a chicken-leg off Matthiaos’ plate with a fork.

“This is a seriously nice party.” He said, ignoring the dirty look Matthiaos was giving him. “And here I thought my House treated their favorites well.” The wedding reception was in full swing, the great feasting hall of the Fortemps manor richly decorated in the Pendragon colors of blue and white. Wine and other drink was flowing freely, and the tables were laden with various foods expertly prepared by the main kitchens. Servants were unobtrusively replacing candles while guests chattered, a mix of nobles, military, and commonfolk. At the high table, Pendragon could be seen whispering to his new bride, who was quite pink from the attention she was receiving. Kauchiox grinned, taking a bite of food.

“Those two are going to have fun tonight.” He quipped.

“What have I told you about stealing my food?!” Matthiaos snapped.

“The table’s too far, I’m lazy.” Stephan ignored the bickering, looking around the room again.

“Halone’s mercy, they invited the Fabrons?” He commented. 

“The guest list I think was a combination of ‘friends’ and ‘people who didn’t mind the bride’s background’ and ‘required invitations because the last thing needed is to piss off some other noble house’.” Matthiaos said, holding his plate out of reach. “Also add in ‘possible allies’ because as of right now, House Pendragon consists of Cobalt, his new wife, his grandfather, and his sister.” Stephan’s head snapped back towards Matthiaos, his eyes widening in shock.

“Whaaattt?”

“I told you!” Matthiaos swallowed a mouthful of wine and gestured to Count Fortemps, who was sitting alongside the bride and groom. “The old man ordered that Cobalt be made family head—of which he was supposed to have been anyway, and stripped and the uncle and all his family of all the holdings! He has to start completely over from scratch!” Illaenne walked over to the trio, armor clinking.

“I need to get in touch with Lady Honarae of my House after this.” She said, stealing Matthiaos’s goblet and taking a sip of wine. “Pendragon’s new wife is going to need a lot of help, the vultures are already circling.”

“Why does everyone steal my food?!”

“She’s so very sweet.” Illaenne gestured with the goblet. “But she doesn’t know anything about the nobility, and she’s already had some bad encounters with the priesthood.”

“She looks sweet but she’s not.” Kauchiox said. “She studied arcanistry in Limsa, I’ve seen her walking over to him in the Congregation in her armor and a spellbook on her hip.” Matthiaos had given up on getting his goblet back from Illaenne, snagging another one from a passing servant.

“The House has her registered as an adventurer on the payrolls.” He said. “And I think she’s done some combat, mostly helping out at Camp Dragonhead…woman stop stealing my food!” Illaenne had snatched the remaining chicken-leg from off his plate.

“Food table’s too far away.” She said. Kauchiox and Stephen repressed snorts of laughter. Matthiaos cursed, then stalked away to refill his empty plate. A roar of merriment came from the high table, the new bride had buried her face in her husband’s shoulder at a particularly lewd joke.

“The sex is probably the only reason why he was able to land her.” Stephan cracked. Kauchiox elbowed him.

“Be nice to the groom.” He said. “Pendragon deserves a bit of happiness, he’s had so much shite to deal with.” Matthiaos came back over with a full plate.

“Touch it and die.” He turned around, surveying the room. “Passed by some grumbling on the way over, quite a few mamas are upset Cobalt’s off the market.”

“Eh, your House has enough single men to dry their tears.” Kauchiox eyed his partner’s plate. 

“Not as much as yours.” Matthiaos countered.

“Please don’t remind me. After this I need to go throttle one of the Count’s nephews, he’s gone and knocked up another chambermaid again.”

“Again?” Illaenne exclaimed.

“Again.”

“Your House has entirely too many male heirs.” Stephan noted. 

“Everyone has too many male heirs.” Kauchiox groused. “Half the problems I have to deal with in Dzemael could be solved with some disinheriting. Swear to Halone, the current Count’s underestimating the female side of his House and it’s going to bite him in the arse.”

“Disinheriting would probably help a lot of the problems among the High Houses, period.” Illaenne said. Then a grin crossed her face. “Hello, hello, what’s this?” The bride and groom had left their chairs, Pendragon leading his new wife rather sneakily towards the room’s exit.

“Oh praise Halone. I did not want to do a bedding ceremony with this lot.” Stephan said. “Smart man.”

“Many happy nights for those two.” Kauchiox chuckled, toasting the departing forms. “And if Halone wills it, a little one in the nursery before the year’s out.”


	20. Countdown (2)

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> A reason why Estinien kept that blood-soaked drachen-mail...

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> (So figured an Estinien bit would be good for chapter 20! o_o surprised this fic has come this far, heh heh. *bows* Thank you for all the support and kind words so far!
> 
> It’s never really mentioned just WHY Estinien stayed in the blood-soaked armor, but considering that he makes a comment on how it displeases him and he needs to get it reforged, there had to be a very good reason why he didn’t get it done. It’s been aired that keeping his mail as it was enhanced his powers, which were definitely needed for Azys Lla. But seeing as how there’s a time gap inbetween the events of the Vault and the breaching of the islands’ floating barrier, I figured there had to be more to it.
> 
> I decided to run with the theory that he didn’t get it redone/was waiting to get it redone because of how long it possibly takes to repair/create drachen mail. Also from my experiences in the game, nothing’s really said (again) on that time period between the Vault/Warrior of Light’s return on dragonback in Ishgard, so I decided to assume that while Aymeric probably started with one hell of a grip on power in the city, as time progressed it would start to fray, the Church would start chomping at the bit, looking for possibly any little thing to start trouble/seize power back/demand to know what was going on. 
> 
> Estinien also seems to be the type of commander to me that would prioritize the safety of his men/their combat readiness over his own. However over time (as it’s shown at the airship landing before the WoL’s second departure to Azys Lla) it could be that the corruption was starting to affect his judgement.)

The armorsmith nervously wrung his hands, swallowing. Giving bad news to anyone high up was stressful enough, but having the Azure Dragoon come to the Knight-Dragoon smithy and having to speak to him…

“…We have no supplies left? At all?” The elezen shook his head in response to the question. 

“We’ve barely been able to keep the armor repaired, let alone make the new suits of mail for those who pass the trials.” He said, gesturing to a pile of mangled blue metal. “Ser Pendragon just took the last repair slot, and at this point it looks as if he needs an entirely new set.” The older elezen paused, then continued.

“We can reforge your armor ser, but given the corruption to it, we’d have to augment it with fresh material and that would mean someone doesn’t get repairs or a suit.” Estinien closed his eyes. He needed new drachen-mail. Nidhogg’s blood was causing trouble for both his sanity and for the men and women he ventured near. 

“Can a supply run be made?” He asked.

“We’d have trouble with it. Inquisition’s been lurking around the Congregation, pulling away anyone for the slightest of faults.” Estinien growled softly, turning away and rubbing a temple.

_Nothing’s ever easy, godsdamn it all._ Tempers in the Order were near their breaking point, as the dragoons had been struggling to deal with maintaining a lookout for Imperial activity in addition to their normal duties. Aymeric’s grip on the Church—which had started as a stranglehold—was starting to weaken as questions began to circulate about the Archbishop and the Heaven’s Ward. The Warrior of Light had encountered her own difficulties—having been able to track the errant Archbishop and the Ward but then losing them behind the protective forcefield of Azys Lla. The Ironworks airship needed a complete retrofit, having been damaged during the pursuit and was now in dry-dock. The Warrior of Light herself had left Ishgard once more-heading for the Dravanian Hinterlands to search for a weapon that could be used to break the Allagan barrier. 

_Breathe. Breathe. You are in control._ Estinien made himself inhale, and then exhale. Inhale, and then exhale. His grip on his temper was significantly better today, as he wasn’t wearing his armor. _One thing at a time…_ As his mind calmed, the whispers that had been plaguing him every so often ceased, and a faint shimmer of an idea bubbled to the surface. Estinien tilted his head, lowering his hand.

“…Can you set up a forge outside of the city?” He asked, turning around. The armorsmith blinked in surprise.

“What?”

“A makeshift forge.” Estinien said. “If we bring the reagents, can you set up a makeshift forge outside of the city for repairs?” It sounded ludicrous but at this point considering all sanity in the city had already been thrown out the window… The other elezen frowned, crossing his arms.

“…Technically, we’ve already got one, ser. Falcon’s Nest is set up for the quick patchwork repairs needed when you all are in Western Coerthas.” He said. “It wouldn’t take too much to make it a fully operational one, but it could draw attention…”

“It doesn’t need to be fully operational.” Estinien said. “The major thing right now is repairs primarily, aye? The Inquisition’s not sniffing around out there, it’s a safe spot to bring in the supplies…” The armorsmith nodded, seeing what the Azure was getting at.

“Aye, that’d be a safe spot for now. But we need to make the full sets here for the newbloods.” He said, gesturing. “Now if the Inquisition could bloody ease up a bit, we could bring in one big haul that could get the suits made.”

“How many suits?” Estinien asked, even though he already knew the answer.

“Looking at about seven, considering that’s all the squires left for your trials.”

_Which cuts down to between possibly three or four surviving, which leaves material left over._ Drachen armor that was unclaimed from trials or had already been given to a squire who had failed their next test was reclaimed and repurposed. Estinien frowned, mentally going over timetables and patrol-strings.

“If I ordered a hunt today and got materials to Falcon’s Nest by…” _Coldfire and Snowsinger are relatively speedy, and they know how to harvest the scales without damage. Add in Matthiaos and his partner…_ “Week’s end, how soon can you get the repairs underway?”

“We’d need to send some of our people with-” Estinien shook his head. “Ah-without? We can have the forge modified and running by day after tomorrow if we push it. Then depending on repairs…” The elezen hurried over to a nearby table, looking at a set of papers. “We can have the minor repairs done by next week. Major repairs, about a fortnight. If you can get some of the trials staggered out a bit, it can give us some breathing room in making the new suits.”

“Do it. I’ll see what I can provide you.” Estinien ordered. The armorsmith’s head popped up.

“And what about yours?” He asked, eyes wide. Estinien paused. Self-preservation warred with duty, he needed, needed, **needed** a new set of armor. But…

“If I don’t take priority…” He said slowly. “When is the soonest I can get a new suit?” 

“S-ser…?”

“When is the soonest, if I don’t take priority, and wait in line with the rest of my brothers and sisters?” Estinien repeated the question. 

“We…we…” The other elezen stammered, and then looked down at his papers. “A…ah…you if you didn’t take priority, and matters were arranged that we could get everyone squared away, and if there weren’t any emergencies…” He swallowed. “Possibly...next moon…or the moon after next…” Estinien was silent for several moments, and then nodded.

_If I’ve held out for this long, what’s another few weeks?_ “Do it.” He ordered. “Get the Falcon’s Nest forge going for major repair work, and you’ll have blood and scales by the end of the week there. I’ll speak to the Lord High Commander about getting the Inquisition away from us long enough to get what you need for the full-suit repairs and forging.”

“Ser…are you sure you’re going to be able to…” The armorsmith blurted out, and then stopped. “I’m sorry!” Estinien shrugged, lifting up his hands.

“It is uncomfortable to wear and it has been getting on my nerves.” He said, lying smoothly. “But given our situation, I cannot in good conscience monopolize what limited supplies we have and what we can get for my own comfort and safety.” It was a gamble, but…

_If I wear it piecemeal, I can ignore the corruption. Get stronger warding seals for my office, restrict everyone but Brucemont and the most senior dragoons._ “Get to work. I’ll get you your supplies.”


	21. Tension (2)

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> The Azure Dragoon has fallen, the lies of Ishgard's past are about to be revealed, and the Knights Dragoon are put on the path to hit a long-overdue breaking point.

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> (And here's 21! Going to be sticking to the MSQ along with a bit more theorycrafting, so please enjoy!
> 
> Of note: It's never mentioned that with Nidhogg controlling Estinien, he would have had full knowledge of the city's defenses.. )

The room was deathly silent. Brucemont watched as the Warrior of Light swallowed, her fingers fluttering. Ishgard’s savior was nervous, and while he damn well couldn’t blame her, he just didn’t have the mindspace needed to deal with her fears. Not after what she had just said.

“Could…could you repeat that?” Matthiaos asked. His voice was quiet-not a good thing from the Fortemps dragoon. Brucemont knew for a fact that he’d been dealing with double-patrols for the past half-moon and was running on fumes. “Because…I’m not too certain on what I heard. It sounded like you just said our leader is **_possessed by Nidhogg._**."

“Matthiaos.” Illaenne said softly, reaching out a hand to rest it on his arm. “Let her explain." Kauchiox rumbled softly in agreement. The Warrior of Light swallowed again, her eyes flicking to Ser Aymeric, and then to Brucemont. The blue-haired elezen simply stared back. 

“The Archbishop had Nidhogg’s other eye lodged in…his sword.” She said. “Estinien went over to retrieve it. He said he was going to take them both someplace far away so they wouldn’t be used…and then it happened. The Eyes reacted, and before I could get over there…” She trailed off. “His armor, his body…it all vanished, and Nidhogg was standing there.” Illaenne uttered a low moan, bowing her head. Stephan cursed, and Brucemont wished he could do the same. Aymeric stepped forward.

“This…is…” He paused, lower jaw working. “I will not lie, I have asked far too much of you over the past several moons, and I fear I must continue to impose.” Brucemont turned a weary gaze towards the Lord High Commander. “But with this new development, it means…”

“Nidhogg now possibly knows our patrol strings, our supply routes, even the new defenses for the city.” The First Lance answered in a monotone.

“Not to mention who’s sick and who’s in recovery…” Kauchiox continued.

“Basically everything about the Order and whatever information the Azure was privy to on the Temple Knights Nidhogg now knows.” Stephan chimed in.

“And I’m certain you understand very well Lord Commander why we have to keep what’s happened to Ser Wrymblood a secret.” Brucemont finished. Aymeric nodded.

“You are a step ahead of me. However, with that, I fear we must take one back…as I will have to reveal the truth of what my father was doing to the general populace.” He said. Brucemont and the others started in surprise, and Aymeric shook his head.

“There is no choice, considering…” He gazed at the Warrior of Light, who flushed in embarrassment. “The other three High Houses are demanding answers, as well as the Church’s conclave, and my own commanders.” 

“We will deal with anything that arises from the disclosure.” Brucemont said. Aymeric nodded, gesturing to the Warrior of Light.

“We’ll leave you to it.” He said softly. The Warrior of Light bit her lower lip, her eyes flicking over the gathered group.

“..I’m sorry.” She said softly. Bowing her head, she followed Aymeric out of the room, Kauchiox going over to shut the door behind them.

“That godsdamned armor!” Stephen exploded. “Why the hells was he still wearing it?! It should have been destroyed moons ago-”

“He didn’t want to rob any of us or one of the new dragoons of a suit.” Brucemont said, his voice muffled. The quartet turned their heads towards him as one.

“What?” Matthiaos asked.

“If he’d gotten a new set of drachen-mail, it would have robbed one of the first years or one of us. He didn’t want to do that.” Brucemont’s head was in his hands, and his voice was quavering. “So he ordered that he’d be last on the list. I just got a godsdamn notice from the armorsmith this morning that they had started work on his new armor.” Silence filled the room again at the pronouncement, Kauchiox moving over to place a comforting hand on his fellow Dzemael dragoon.

“…I think under the circumstances, recalling everyone might be a good idea.” He said softly. “And maybe…keeping what happened as need to know among us.” Brucemont angled his head to peer up at the Duskwight, eyes red from sheer exhaustion. Dragging in a deep breath, he pushed himself up from the desk.

“If Aymeric’s going public with what happened, everyone needs to be called back anyway.” He said, voice raspy. Stephan narrowed his eyes. “Everyone needs to know. The rest of us, the squires, the students, the teachers…”

“Let that be something we handle.” Illaenne said suddenly. Brucemont looked at her. “We already were the ones who were slowly breaking the news, might as well let us finish.” Stephan’s scowl grew darker and he looked away. “That frees you up for some rest, First Lance, as well as trying to figure out how we can…counteract anything Nidhogg comes with against our defenses.”

“We can’t come up with anything.” Matthiaos said. He sighed, leaning back against the door. “If we start changing everything all over again, it’ll only invite questions and nosing around. I’m assuming we’re just going to say that the Azure’s scouting Dravania…” 

“It’s the best lie.” Brucemont said softly. He closed his eyes, rubbing the palms of his hands against the orbs. “Recall orders. Central and Western Highlands units I want here by tomorrow night. Dravanian units, the following afternoon. Even if the godsdamn second moon drops I want everyone back here. Anyone from the Church comes calling, kick them out, we’ll deal with them later.”

“Ser-“Stephan protested.

“ ** _They will be dealt with later._** ” Brucemont snarled. The High House dragoons involuntary took a step back as dragonfire flashed from the First Lance’s hair. “One bloody thing at a time!”

“We’ll handle it!” Kauchiox said, reaching to grab Stephan and pull him out of the room. Matthaios and Illaenne quickly excused themselves as well, and Brucemont found himself alone. As fast as the anger had appeared, it vanished, and the elezen wearily sank his head into his hands. A migraine was pounding behind his eyes, and if he was truly honest with himself, he wanted to curl up into a ball and weep from sheer exhaustion. 

“Halone, please…” He started to whisper, and then trailed off. Was the goddess even listening? Did she even exist? “Please, please help. This is too much to bear…”


	22. Tension (3)

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> With the truth of the Dragonsong War made known to the people of Ishgard, the Knights Dragoon now find that they must deal with the same struggles their charges are now experiencing.

The following moon and a half saw an uneasy peace settle over Ishgard.  The truth of the Dragonsong War, along with the actions of the Archbishop and the Heaven’s Ward, went over with the force of an Ixal bomb-balloon with the public.  Now most of Aymeric’s time was spent fighting with the Church’s council and with the High Houses to keep things stable while a new provisional government was formed.  Lucia and Handeloup had their hands full with the Temple Knights, and as for the Knights Dragoon…

 

Brucemont had made his wishes clear.  The Order was to continue as it had before-defending the people of Ishgard from dragon-attack.  It was clear that the Horde was still organized and active, and until it was defeated, there would be nothing else for the Knights Dragoon to ponder.  There would be no debate on the status of the Church…but at the same time, the only actions to be taken against any Dravanians would be against the Horde, and only the Horde.  And when it came to the status of the city, the Knights Dragoon were again, neutral.  However, the pronouncement had not gone over well.  Those in the Order who were faithful to the Church-senior dragoons, squires, even the servants-had complained and tried to pressure Brucemont into revoking the commands.  That had resulted in the First Lance finally cracking under the stress and losing his temper…rather spectacularly. 

 

Nobody had dared voice any opposition afterwards.  It was an informal ceasefire, with either side unwilling to say anything, instead preferring to focus on anything else.  And thankfully there were things to fill the gap…

 

\-----------------------

 

“…Seventeen minutes?”  Matthiaos repeated, staring at Stephan.  “You’re saying Pendragon’s newling managed to fight Dead-Eye for seventeen fucking minutes?!”  Stephan nodded.

“Lucian had to burn a small bit of dragonfire to keep up, and he got a broken rib.”  He said.  “You had to be there to see it.  Suddenly Lucian couldn’t get any hits on him, and when he tried to disable him the first time, Beauregard somehow managed to twist himself about in the air.  Hooked his foot around Lucian’s own and brought them both down together.”  He shook his head.

“Where’s Dead-Eye now?”

“Supervising the punishment detail for the squires who were watching the fight.  He’s going to be on their arses for a few days to reestablish the pecking order.”  Stephan couldn’t help himself, he was snorting with laughter.  “Pendragon’s squire is included, for having the sheer balls to last that long.  Though Lucian’s wanting to corner Pendragon himself and ask more about the boy.”

“He’s already got a squire, he can’t poach.”  Matthiaos said, leaning over in his chair and starting to go through a pile of papers.  “I also had a feeling that one was going to be a late-bloomer.  But godsdamn if the timing isn’t bloody off.  Pendragon’s setting up his drachen-trials, and Beauregard’s going to get flung into a pressure-cooker.”

“Late-bloomers have done trials before and passed…” 

“Aye, but Beauregard’s a mess.  His dragon only started stirring about half a moon past, and you can tell when he fights that he’s holding himself back.”  Matthiaos found what he was looking for, pulling out a leather folio.   “Plus, the damn Inquisition’s poking about and asking about him again, and that’s stress he doesn’t ne…”  Matthiaos trailed off.  Stephan exhaled, pressing his lips together and glancing to the side.

“…They’re only trying to make sure that everything is-”  He began.  Matthiaos's head popped up, and he stared at Stephan.

“Really? You’re going to actually side with a lot of lying, cheating, murdering bastards-”

“Not everything was a lie and you know it!”  Stephan snapped, turning his head back to glare at the Fortemps dragoon. 

“Everything was a fucking lie! How can you…”  Matthiaos forced himself to stop, inhaling sharply.  Out of the four of them, Stephan had been the one to come down solidly on the side of the Church.  It had been an unspoken agreement that anything Church/Dragonsong War related was to be avoided like the plague, because the last thing needed was for the High House Dragoons to show any sign of discord.  And for his sake, Matthiaos had been trying his best not to poke the dragon, so to speak.  But it was frustrating, oh so frustrating to watch his brother in arms, a man that he’d fought with, bled with, mourned with, been though the seven Hells with-blindly swallow what clearly was lies and treachery, insist that they were truth, and make excuses for dishonorable behaviors.  Stephan's body was now tense as he looked at his fellow dragoon, though his voice was glacial as he continued to speak.  

“If he’s not done anything wrong, he doesn’t have any reason to be concerned-”

“That’s a crock of shite and you know it!”  Matthiaos exploded out of his seat, eyes flashing.  “Where does it say that Halone approved of an eight-year-old boy getting dragged to the Inquistion’s dungeons?! Where does it say that she approved of families being punished and destroyed for the sins of one member?!  Where does it say she wants them to be dogged all their life for crimes that weren’t their own?”  The words were spilling out now, the dam breached.  Stephan had shot to his feet as well, glaring back at Matthiaos but the Fortemps dragoon didn’t care. 

“Tell me how Halone can welcome us into her halls if we die in honorable death, but for the mother who died in childbirth she’s not welcome?!  Or the father who froze to death trying to bring food back to his family?  Or the orphan who dies of illness in the Brume? How are they less worthy in Halone’s eyes than us, than the nobles, or the fucking priesthood?!  Or what if we don’t die of honorable death? What if we’re able to die old, in our beds, surrounded by loved ones?  How does that exempt us from her glory?  Go on, justify it to me!  Tell me!” 

“Matthiaos, stop!”  A cry jolted Matthiaos out of his rage-induced haze, and he looked up towards the door.  Illeanne and Kauchiox were standing there, and behind them were several wide-eyed junior dragoons and servants.  Throat suddenly dry, Matthiaos glanced back to Stephan.  The Hyur’s skin was mottled in rage, his fists clenched.  Pure venom was in his eyes as he glared at Matthiaos, and without a word he spun on a heel and made for the open door.  The sea of bodies parted as he passed, and a heavy silence filled the air.  With a sigh Matthiaos sank back into his chair, covering his head.

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> (I'm bacck. Haven't meant to be away for this long, but IRL...a lot of problems cropped up. And dealing with some major stuff still. Anyway.
> 
> Pretty much starting to head into the final stretch with this fic, which means there's going to be a considerable amount more theorycraft. I'm playing fast and free with the technical 'timeline' of what went down, as the events of HW/post-HW I feel occurred over a span of months to a year. IMO at max I feel HW took place over a two-year timespan, and not the 'one/bumrush from hell' that SE uses. 
> 
> I also very, very strongly feel that the Knights Dragoon were affected by Aymeric's revelations to the public and his initial attempt to get Ishgard to a ceasefire/peace with the Dravanians. The next chapter (or two, haven't figured that out yet) deal with patch 3.1, which introduced the Brothers of the Faith. Given how deeply ingrained the Orthodoxy was in Ishgard, I've always found it odd that the Brothers of the Faith seemed to be restricted ingame to what appeared to be the Vault's arm of the Temple Knights/more militant faction of the Inquisition [or possibly a private army]. 
> 
> There's also mention of Halonic belief in this chapter, and I post the disclaimer now that this is based on my own experiences questing, there is the very real possibility I may be missing some information. That said, from my playthough, it seems to be given lore that only those who die in honorable combat are admitted into Halone's halls. There is a sidequest that -centers- around you lying to a father stationed at Camp Dragonhead about how his son has died, telling him that his son died fighting so he has the belief that his child was admitted to the halls of the Fury. 
> 
> Now if you look at what's written in the lorebook for the Heaven of Ice, it goes 'epic heroes and gallant knights, the benevolent and the faithful'. Yet that never seems to come up in game. If you've done the Scholasticate quests via Hildabrand, you learn that teachings that promote equality among Halonic's children more or less have been suppressed. A leve-quest makes note that while it is generally accepted for women to take up weapons and defend Ishgard in the name of the Fury, the scripture seems more biased towards noble-blooded women who daintily stay at home and keep house. Which is strange, considering a goddess of war would be more accepting/have more honor showered upon the women who take up weapons to fight for their home. A lot of inaccuracies rear their heads in Halonic doctrine if you know where to look, and that was my basis for Matthiaos' rant.)
> 
> [side note: I have a Tumblr for XIV and another for my writing, if anyone's interested in seeing more theorycraft/ffxiv shitposting/other writing!]
> 
> scrollsfromarebornrealm: xiv  
> crazyscotwithapen: other writing


	23. Lost (1)

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> Two dragoons begin to consider for what is for the Order, unthinkable...the elimination of Estinien Wrymblood.

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> (Something short and sweet. Takes place before the Warrior of Light leaves for Anyx Trine with Lucia. I think it's reasonable to assume that the Knights Dragoon would have been trying to come up with a way to fight Estinien. Also recently, lore was released that said the effects of drinking dragon-blood and turning into a dragon could be reversed initially...by beating the shit out of the drinker. 
> 
> As for the Knights Dragoon turning into dragons, well... *gestures to Estinien* While any Ishgardian who had ancestry from the Knights Twelve can turn after drinking dragon-blood, I feel that dragoons could run a high risk of possibly turning due to their high exposure to dragon-aether/perhaps drinking dragon-blood. Another set of factors [and ones that have come up in roleplay that I've experienced] could also be extremely high stress levels, depression, PSTD, even suicidal motives. Now if the dragoon in question is able to keep his mind after he turns dragon, well... *shrug*
> 
> Also if you like my writing and theorycraft, I've more where it came from!
> 
> scrollsfromarebornrealm.tumblr.com (XIV theorycraft and posts)  
> crazyscotwithapen.tumblr.com (other writing)
> 
>  
> 
> \---------------------------

                Kauchiox headed towards Brucemont’s office, carrying a wrapped cloth bundle.  As he came closer to the door, it opened to reveal the Warrior of Light.  Surprised, the Duskwight stopped, offering a bow to the small hyuran woman as she passed.  The Warrior nodded, a pensive look on her face as she passed.  Kauchoix straightened, watching her leave.  Going over to the door, he turned the handle.

                “Brucemont?”  Kauchiox winced as his fellow House Dzemael dragoon looked up.  Brucemont looked as if he’d been dragged over the Holy See’s rooftops. 

                “Kauchiox? Ah shite, did I have a meeting or…”

                “No, no.”  Kauchiox said quickly.  He set down the wrapped bundle on the First Lance’s desk. “I wanted to bring you something hot to eat.  I know you haven’t had a decent meal for a while.”  Brucemont blinked in surprise.

                “I…”

                “Just eat first.  I’ll get you some drink.”  Not giving his fellow dragoon a chance to argue, Kauchiox went over to the nearby side table, uncorking a jug.  The rustling of fabric told him that Brucemont was obeying, and the white-haired Duskwright poured out two glasses of cider.  Coming back over, he set one glass in front of Brucemont, taking a seat in front of the desk.  For a while there were no sounds other than the clink of cutlery, and soon Brucemont leaned back in his chair.  He closed his eyes.

                “…I needed that.”  He said softly.  Kauchiox didn’t reply, swallowing another mouthful of cider. 

                “Everyone’s…settled, for now.”  He said.  “But I can’t promise you it’ll last long.”

                “Matthiaos and Stephen?”

                “Neutral ground.  Anything else…” Kauchoix trailed off, his eyes meeting the other dragoon’s own.  Brucemont nodded, looking down at his desk.

                “…I requested the Warrior of Light’s aid.”  He said softly.  “For…Estinien.  That…is going to be a fight that we cannot win unless we have her assistance.  And…”  He stopped, closing his eyes.  “I don’t know if we can even turn him back.  It is one thing when one of us falls and turns, but Estinien is on an entirely different level.”  Kauchiox nodded.

                “It…also doesn’t help that we’ve not had such an incident in a while.”  He said.  Out of all Ishgard, dragoons were the ones who were the most susceptible to turning, by the drachen mail and the awakened dragon inside of them.  It had happened in the Order, and such events were kept secret on pain of death.  There was only one way to reverse such a transformation, and it was to engage the newly turned in battle.  Inflict enough harm and the dragon-aether would burn itself out, allowing the victim to return to normal.  However, there was a time limit to render aid, and once it had expired, the transformation was permanent.  “The last time such events happened was back when Alberic was Azure.  Haillenarte and Fortemps.”

                “The Haillenarte one died.”  Brucemont mused.  “But the Fortemps…”

                “You would be better speaking to Matthiaos on that.”  Kauchoix said.  “But I can say that he and a select few dragoons of that House have a…friendly ally of sorts.”  Lacing his fingers together, he leaned forward.  “That aside, Wrymblood was the most powerful one among us, even before the Eye chose him.  With two of the damn things and even with the Warrior of Light helping, the fight may not go in our favor.  Hells, the only thing working for us right now is the fact that Nidhogg’s keeping to the Aery.”

                “Which is something I’m afraid could change.”  Brucemont resisted the urge to twist his fingers.  “At any moment we could see him recall the Horde and lead it against the city.  Before that happens, we have to do something.”  Kauchiox’s eyes narrowed.

                “You want to engage him in his lair?”

                “It’s something I’m considering.”  Brucemont answered. “Otherwise…he could come to the city.  And if that happens…”  He trailed off.  Kauchiox’s lips pressed into a thin line. 

                “If he comes here, we’re all as good as dead.”


	24. Lost (2)

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> The Brothers of the True Faith make their first move.

               Brucemont lay unmoving on the bed.  His armor had been removed-he was clad only in his undershirt and pants, revealing the network of scars that were across his arms, what was visible of his chest, and legs.  A nurse tucked him in, giggling as the First Lance’s mouth opened and a snore came out.  Kauchiox exhaled, his shoulders sagging.

                “I owe you one, Mathye.” 

                “You don’t owe me anything, I’m sticking around for the show when he wakes up and finds out what happened.”  The black-haired hyur limped over, the skirts of his robe rustling.  “Your arse is grass…or maybe not.  I was about to do the same thing, only he would have gotten the business end of my cane.  Maybe when he wakes up, he’ll have his wits about him.”  Kauchoix chuckled, turning his attention to the ex-dragoon.

                “How did you find a sedative anyway that wouldn’t set him and his dragon off?”  He asked, curious. 

                “I didn’t. Both of them are so exhausted that they wouldn’t have been able to pick up what was in the wine.”  Mathye gestured.  “While you’ve got him in my area of the infirmary, I might as well give him a full checkup and see what I can do to get him somewhat fully functional when he wakes up.  Who’s running the shite show?”

                “Us four.”  Kauchiox replied.  “With how…well, things have been somewhat quiet, we can at least get away with this.”

                “You sure about that, considering Stephan’s going full-fledged zealot?”

                “He’s not done that!”  Kauchoix defended the Durendaire dragoon, and then sighed. “At least…I don’t think.  We haven’t touched that area of discussion.”

                “I think you’re past the need to touch.”  Mathye said dryly, moving closer to Brucemont and leaning over the prone elezen.  “That shite needs to get settled, because you need to know where his arse is with the program.  Right now all its doing is festering, and when that happens, it’s going to bleed out in places you didn’t want it to go.  Look at what’s going on with the clergy and the Scholasticate now.”  Kauchiox crossed his arms.

                “Is it really that bad?”  Mathye snorted, reaching over for a small light crystal and activating it.

                “I don’t mind the priests that needed an arsekicking getting it in the streets.  That, I’m fucking with.  Hell, Halone probably approves of it.  But there’s the sort that honestly were trying to help the poor, honor their vows, all that.”  He opened one of Brucemont’s eyes, shining the light on it.  “Then there’s the students.  Some of them have been coming here for their hurts.  I don’t hold with attacking children.”  Kauchiox exhaled.

                “Halone damn it.”  He muttered.  Mathye frowned, closing the eye and opening the other one.  Closing it, he deactivated the crystal and reached for one of Brucemont’s wrists, wrapping his fingers around it.  A low pulse of aether spread from his grip and into the elezen’s skin, bringing the veins of the arm into view with a shimmer of blue-green.

                “…He’s going to have to go on medical potions for several days.  And you lot are going to have to bully him into a normal work schedule.”  Kauchiox watched him.  “His aether’s low, and so is Bastien’s.”  Bastien was the name Brucemont had given to his inner dragon.  “You’re lucky there’s no fighting.  The moment he would have attempted a jump, that would have burned what they have left and then he’d have been even worse.”  With a sigh, Mathye released Brucemont’s wrist, the aether fading. 

                “How strong can you make the potions?”  Kauchiox didn’t flinch from the glare the healer shot him.  “I have to ask, you know this!”  Mathye gave the Duskwright a dirty look, and then exhaled gustily.

                “If needed, I can give over an instant rejuvenation potion.  The ‘clean’ one, not the ‘dirty’.  It’d get him on his feet and keep him running for about twenty hours.”

                “And the ‘dirty’ one?”  Kauchiox asked.  ‘Dirty’ was code for dragon’s blood. 

                “Two days, but Bastien would start acting up.  Brucemont’s in no shape to help his dragon work though that shite.”  Mathye grimaced, shifting his weight to his left leg.  “He’ll have two days of a weak potion, then upgrade to a slightly stronger formula for another four.  Combined with making sure he sleeps every night or at least gets a few hours of unconsciousness and some decent meals, which should be enough-aggh!”  An explosion of noise had erupted from his linkpearl, and Mathye put a hand to his ear.

                “What the fuck is…”  He trailed off, his eyes widening.  Kauchoix watched as the healer’s skin paled in shock-before Mathye snapped to full professionalism, looking at him.

                “Get out.”

                “What?”

                “Get out, get out, we need the ward-get, get!”  Mathye snarled.  Leg forgotten, he pushed at Kauchoix. “Get on the line to the others!  There’s been an assassination attempt on the Lord High Commander!”

                “ ** _What?!_** ”  Kauchiox was already moving, lifting a hand to his ear as Mathye barreled past him.  The doors to the ward slammed open, and staggering though were two Temple Knights.  In-between them, white as a sheet was Aymeric himself, sagging.  A knife was sticking out of his stomach, blood trickling from his midsection and down over his armor, staining the floor.  Then he vanished from view as Mathye and several other healers swarmed the trio, and Kauchiox heard his name being screamed over the pearl.

                _Kauchiox! Kauchoix! Come in! Respond, damn you!_

                “Illeanne-I’m in the infirmary!  The Lord High Commander, he’s-”

 _There’s a fire in the Brume!_ The Dzemael dragoon froze.  _Haldrath’s Way!  All the residences there-they just lit up-_

                “I’m coming now! Get everyone on that patrol string to start rescue, and call in the squires and those off-duty to head to the snow-melt pools!”  Kauchiox broke the connection, looking at the swarming medics.

                “Fire in the Brume!”  He bellowed.  Half the medics froze, whipping around to stare at him in shock.  “I just got the call, Haldrath’s Way, all the homes there are alight!”  Again the infirmary exploded into action, healers and nurses rushing to grab burn supplies and to prepare beds.  Aymeric could be seen being carried into another room, Count Fortemps following close behind while the Temple Knights who had come immediately took up guard posts outside the door.  Mathye was bellowing, gesturing and snapping out orders while he grabbed a medical kit, and Kauchiox made for the door, calling Illeanne back over the pearl.

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> (So a bit of a long post here. First off, once again I'm taking liberties with time-spreading out the events of Aymeric's attempted assassination, the Brume Fire, and eventually the Vault's takeover. Second, this chapter brings up a major theorycraft I had regarding dragoons and their inner dragons. 
> 
> I've seen friends of mine theorize-and I myself- that the inner dragon of a dragoon is actually a separate and active being. They can either be bound to the dragoon soulstone and more or less 'join' with the bearer, or they're the manifestation of the Ishgardian dragon-curse, twisted to be bound with the dragoon for the rest of their natural lives due to the Knight Dragoon training/any initiation rites/drachen mail or even the ingestion of dragon-blood. Given the Dragoon LB3 and Mirage Dive, the inner dragon can physically manifest as an aetherical creature, but otherwise communicates with their dragoon/other dragons via mental communication. A dragoon can draw upon the inner dragon's aether for power, and the dragon can draw upon the dragoon's aether to sustain itself. 
> 
> Given then, that a dragoon has another personality living in their head, I figured that you would have some dragoons and inner dragons who are able to co-exist peacefully, naming their inner dragons and generally able to manage the curse. Then you would have some who haven't been able to get on, which could lead to either the inner dragon managing to take over and the dragoon turning into a dragon, or the dragoon trying to separate themselves from the inner dragon by...any means you can possibly imagine. Then at the end of everything, you have the squires who are about to take on their drachen-mail trials, some of whom might be dealing with slowly-awakening inner dragons, while others are being prepared to accept a dragon into them if the dragon is passed down via soulstone.
> 
>  
> 
> One last note: Given snow everywhere in Ishgard, the idea of melting it and using it for potential fire-fighting could be something that's done.)
> 
> Also if you like my writing and theorycraft, I've more where it came from!
> 
> scrollsfromarebornrealm.tumblr.com (XIV theorycraft and posts)  
> crazyscotwithapen.tumblr.com (other writing)


	25. Lost (3)

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> After Aymeric's near-assassination, and the city fires, there's a brief respite...

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> (Not a lot for this one. But expect things to hit the fan next chapter...)

_Potter’s Path is on fire!_

_Fire’s out at Red Rose, but there’s another one at the water-wells!_

_Get everyone you can to the orphanage on Silver Road!  The fire’s heading for it and the children haven’t all been evacuated yet!_

_We have squires overcome from smoke inhalation-_

_Infirmary’s filled to the maximum capacity!  Direct any injured to the Fortemps and Durendaire holdings!_

_There’s another fire at the boarding-houses right on the edge of the Old City!  Halone help us, there’s people trapped inside!_

Hours later, the linkpearls were finally silent.  The fires in the Brume were finally out, and the weary Knight Dragoons sought shelter back within their headquarters.  The High House Dragoons gathered in Brucemont’s office, and with a weary sigh, Matthiaos dropped onto the First Lance’s chair.

                “One of the very few, few times I am actually grateful that we’re in the First Hell…”  He muttered, then coughed.

                “Does anyone know the damage?”  Kauchoix asked, his voice raspy.

                “Total loss for several sectors of the Brume, a quarter of the merchant row over by the aetheryte, and some residences near the Congregation got hit.  Plus, a section of the Croizer’s nothing but cinders now.”  Matthiaos coughed, and then continued.  “Nobody knows the number of homeless…or dead, yet.  Any word on the Lord High Commander?”

                “He’s expected to make a full recovery.  The Warrior of Light’s still not back, though.”  Illaenne said, wincing as she flexed the fingers of her bandaged right hand.  She looked over to Stephen, frowning.  The hyuran dragoon was rather pale and looked as if he was lost in his own world.

                “Stephan?  Stephan.” 

                “Huh? What?  Oh!”  Stephan snapped into full awareness, shaking his head.  “Sorry.  Tired.”  Illeanne frowned.  For several moments there, the look on Stephan’s face hadn’t been one of distraction, it had been of guilt. 

                “Did something happen with your fire-team?”  She asked.

                “Some have family members in the Brume.”  Stephan replied. 

                _Lying._   A hiss flicked though Illeanne’s mind.  _He is lying._

                _Maybe something did happen, and he’s not ready to speak of it yet._   Illeanne thought.  Whatever it was, she wasn’t going to press.  Tensions were still high between the four of them.  “Does anyone know at least what caused the initial fire?”

                “Arson.”  The word fell into the air like a bomb.  Kauchiox and Illeanne’s heads whipped up towards Matthiaos.  “Think back on the linkpearl calls.  It’s a blur, but as soon as we seemingly got one fire down, another popped up to take its place…”

                “Arson?”  Illaenne echoed, shock on her features. 

                “More than that.”  Kauchiox said, his eyes narrowing.  “This was an attack.  First the Lord High Commander, and then suddenly fires break out?  That’s no coincidence.” 

                “But who would want to do such a thing?”  Illeanne asked.  “The ceasefire with the Dravanians is holding, as is with Iceheart’s people.”

                “I don't know.”  Matthiaos coughed again, and then lurched up. “I’m joining the line in the infirmary for this cough.”

                “Aye, you sound dreadful.”  Kauchiox said.  He glanced over at Stephan.  “Are you alright?  You haven’t contributed much to the discussion…”

                “I was just thinking over the string-assignments.”  Stephan answered quickly.  “We’re going to have some gaps on city defense because nearly all of them were on fire-fight duty.  They need breaks, time to sleep this off, get treatment…”

                “Fuck.”  Matthiaos groaned.  “He’s right.  And if this was an attack, we need everyone to be back on their posts as fast as possible.”  He sighed, rubbing a hand over his face.  “We need Brucemont, damn it all to the hells.”  Illeanne bit her lower lip, thinking.

                “First off, let’s send out an order.  Anyone who was on firefight duty, no questions, they need to turn in and get some rest now.  Those who weren’t on duty, assign them to watch the more critical areas of the patrol-net.”  She said.  “After that, Brucemont should be awake, updated, and we can go from there about what should be done next.  Matthaios, do you know if the Temple Knights started an investigation yet?”

                “No, but the First Sword’s probably getting one up and going as we speak.”

                “I’ll get in touch with her before I turn in.  Kauchiox, I assume you’re going to get Brucemont out of the infirmary?”

                “I’ll get Bishop to talk to him.”  The Dzemael dragoon answered.  “Though how we can summarize this mess, I have no idea…” He trailed off.  Illeanne reached over, rubbing his back.

                “Let’s do what we need to do.”  She said gently.  “A quick few hours of sleep, and a more lucid Brucemont can help us from there.”  Off to the side, Stephan had turned his head towards the office window.  In the distance, smoke still could be seen rising into the sky.

`


	26. Implosion

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> The Brothers of the True Faith not only strike at the Vault, but at the Order as well...

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> (I've not written action scenes in a long time, and I'm in the midst of a cross-country move right now, so I apologize if this chapter didn't come out well. >.<
> 
> I also found it strange that the Brothers of the True Faith seemed to be just restricted only to the Vault. Given that in the following patch, Aymeric speaks of limiting their influence, so I decided to go with the idea that when the Vault was attacked, there was a possible attempt at taking over the Temple Knights and the Knights Dragoon. Given this point in the game and the lore, it would make sense that there would have been an attempted takeover of the military as well in addition to the government.)
> 
> \------------

To say that Brucemont was livid after waking up from an enforced (and badly needed nap) was an understatement.  He first attempted to take his wrath out on Mathye, but tangling with a combat medic never ended well, especially with Mathye.  The ex-dragoon had never lost his taste for a fight, even as a healer.  Lucian and another trainer were called upon to grab the First Lance and whisk him away before he ended up back in a medical bed.

                The First Lance’s next target was his fellow Dzemael dragoon, Kauchiox.  However, forewarned by the ever-active gossip-mill in the Congregation, Kauchiox had made a tactical retreat to the kitchens.  It was a sacrosanct rule that one never started any trouble of any sort in the kitchens.  If you did, the main cook for the Knights-Dragoon, a small hyuran man who went by the name of Gaétan, would kill you.  Robbed of his prey…or rather, not wanting to die or eat shite food, Brucemont was forced to listen to Kauchiox’s explanation, all the while making mental notes on how to kill the other elezen and dispose of his body.  But he had to admit, the High House Dragoons had done a good job during his enforced absence, even more so considering that when it came to both the assassination and arson investigations, the Order really couldn’t offer anything in the way of help.  Then when Gaétan advanced on the two elezen with a meat cleaver, a mutual decision was made to retreat.

                And then for several days, it was calm.  The Warrior of Light returned to the city, helping her fellow Scions find one of the arsonists who had started the fires in the Brume.  Aymeric issued orders from his sickbed for the Church to take in and house those who had their homes destroyed.  It was expected for the Lord High Commander to resume his duties as soon as his wounds had healed, but in the court of public opinion he and House Fortemps were taking a battering.  Support for the ceasefire with the Dravanians was at best lukewarm, and many Ishgardians who had lost loved ones to the dragons were railing for fighting to resume.  Brucemont once again was forced to reiterate his stance-that the Knights Dragoon were respecting the ceasefire, their attention was on Nidhogg and his minions, and when it came to the internal affairs of the city, they were strictly neutral.  This resulted in public scorn being turned towards the Order as well, which Brucemont refused to acknowledge.  But on an informal level, orders had been quietly given for Aymeric to have a dragoon-patrol trailing his steps outside of the Congregation whenever he returned to duty.  A team was also being put together to approach the dragons of Anyx Trine, to discuss a possible alliance to fight against Nidhogg.

                Then one afternoon…

 

\------

 

                Louis Bernard had just survived his first year as a dragoon, and actions taken in a battle before the ceasefire with the Dravanians had garnered him the attention of a Haillenarte vassal House.  To be adopted into a noble family would bring him a long way from his beginnings in the Brume.  Adding to his internal delight, his sweetheart had accepted his betrothal bracelet some days before.  Humming a wedding theme, the elezen stopped in front of his locker and began to undress.  Hearing footsteps, he turned his head.

                “Ah, did they pull you in for duty as well?”  The smile on his face started to fade, and Louis looked down at the dagger embedded in his chest.  Suddenly he was starting to feel very cold, and he looked at the other person in the locker room with him.

                “S…sir?”

                “I’m sorry, my son.”  The voice of his former teacher sounded distant, and Louis crumpled to the ground.  “You were one of my best students.  But you shouldn’t have turned from Her.”  Louis swallowed, trying to focus his gaze.  But everything was starting to blur, and his mind was filling with images of his sweetheart-he could even smell the rose-water that she would wear.  And instead of being cold, he was oh so very warm now…  His eyes closed as a red pool started to spread out from beneath him, staining the locker-room floor.

 

 

                Illeanne froze at the entrance to the armory.  For some reason she couldn’t explain, she felt as if the hair on the back of her neck was standing up.  Lowering her hand, she turned around and surveyed the hallway, putting a hand to her right ear.

                “Lucian?”  Silence.  “Lucian, you there?”  Again, no response.  Illeanne lowered her hand, exhaling. 

                < _Watch out! >_ The draconic hiss had Illaenne tensing and jumping back, just as a sword sliced through the air where she’d been standing.  Spinning around, she met the eyes of one of the servants, whose face was contorted in rage.

                “Die, traitor!”  He swung out with the blade again, and Ilaenne ducked.  Coming up, she seized the man’s wrist and twisted.  Bones snapped, and the sword clattered harmlessly to the ground.  With a snarl, Illeanne kneed the man as hard as she could in the solar plexus, and then twisted his arm about him and pinned him to the ground.

                “What’s the meaning of this?!”  She snapped.

                “You treacherous bitch!  Halone will judge you-aah!!!”  Illeanne twisted the arm further, glaring.

                “What do you mean?”

                _Illaenne!  Illaenne!_   The elezen lifted her head, hearing Lucian’s voice over the linkpearl.  _Illeanne!_

                _Lilith, get that for me?_   An electrical tingle crawled over Illeanne’s right cheek.  “Lucian?”

                _Illaenne, thank Halone!  Are you alright?_

                “I’m fine, but you need to send guards to the armory as soon as you can!  I had somebody try to attack me!”

                _You’re not the only one!_   Illaenne’s eyes widened.  _Some of the students just turned on me and the others in the class-we’re fine now, but it was almost a close thing._  

                “What?”

                _We heard fighting breaking out just above us and saw it in the courtyard.  I think somebody’s trying to pull a mutiny!_   Illeanne looked down at her captive.

                “Who’s in charge?!”  She demanded.

                “Fuck you, you Dravanian-loving whore!”  Illeanne’s eyes narrowed, and she leaned down towards the man.

                “Do you want to repeat that?”  She asked, her voice deepening into a growl.

 

               

                Brucemont looked up as another dragoon rushed into his office, dropping into a defensive stance with his spear.  At his feet, a first-year dragoon groaned, curling up into a ball.

                “Friend or foe?!”  He snapped.

                “Friend!  I have orders to get you from Matthiaos!”  Brucemont didn’t say anything, narrowing his eyes.

                _Bastien?_

 _ <He’s okay_.>  Brucemont nodded, relaxing ever so slightly.

                “What the seven hells is going on?”  He snapped.

                “It’s a mutiny for us-but I think part of an overall coup.  An armed group called the Brothers of the True Faith have taken over the Vault and are holding the refugees from the fires hostage.  Ser Aymeric’s gone there himself but the moment he left, us and the Temple Knights found ourselves fighting our kin-apparently they were here as well!”  Brucemont felt his blood run cold, and Bastien snarled in his thoughts.

                _< Traitors and kin-slayers!>_

                “What do they want?”  The words escaped Brucemont’s lips-even though he knew what the answer was going to be.

                “The return of the Orthodoxy to power.  They believe Aymeric murdered the Archbishop and the Heaven’s Ward with the Warrior of Light’s help, and to resume the war with the Dravanians.”  Brucemont closed his eyes, feeling betrayal and rage boil up inside him.  His grip on the spear wavered, and he opened his eyes to look at the prone body at his feet.

                “Our spears are for the people of Ishgard.”  He hissed, unable to keep his voice from twisting into a growl, Bastien’s anger merging with his own.  “The _people_. _**Not**_ the priesthood.  _**Not** _ the nobility.”  The man at his feet coughed, turning a bitter gaze up towards the elezen.

                “Halone-”

                “ _ **Fuck Halone!**_ ”  Brucemont snarled.  His and Bastien’s combined rage was giving him strength, and he reached down to grab the younger dragoon by the neck, lifting him up in a chokehold.  Alarmed, his rescuer rushed over to try and break his grip, but Brucemont held fast, pulling his arm in so he could stare his attacker in the eye.

                “When I am through with you-all of you, every single traitor, you will never be able to call this city-nay, Coerthas your home ever again.”  He hissed, eyes gleaming.  “You all will be exiles.  The lowest of the Brume will be even higher than you!”  With that, he slammed the first-year onto his desk.

 

\-------------

 

                On the rooftop of one of the Vault outbuildings, a tense standoff was taking place.  Kauchoix and Matthaios’s partner Jeannoix were staring down Stephan, who was holding a prone Matthaios hostage with the tip of his Gale Bog pointed at his face.  The bodies of two other unconscious dragoons lay nearby.  Both elezen were barely holding back their rage at their kin’s betrayal-dragonfire sparking off Kauchoix, and low growls coming from Jeannoix.  Matthiaos was lying face up, his helm broken, the tip of the spear just barely above his right eye.  Stephan was pale beneath his armor’s helm, and he swallowed thickly.

                “Don’t make me do it.”  He said, voice quavering.  “Please.  Just lay down your arms and come quietly.  We have the Order, the Congregation…”

                “Fuck you, traitor!”  Jeannoix spat.  “Let him go and I’ll at least give you a clean death!” 

                “Stephen.”  Matthiaos’ voice was quiet.  “Why, brother?”

                “Because somebody has to restore order!  All this-ever since **_she_** came to Ishgard, everything’s gone wrong!  This wasn’t the will of Halone!  We are supposed to fight the Dravanians and defeat them, not break bread with them!”  Stephan’s voice broke, but his hands were still steady on the spear.  “Have you all forgotten what they’ve done to us?  Kauchoix, you lost your brother!  I lost my parents-my entire family!  And you’re just willing to spit on their graves and make nice with the enemy?!”

                “Do you honestly think I don’t have problems with this?”  Kauchoix’s voice was distorted, his dragoon bleeding though.  “I do.  Halone knows I do.  But at the same time, look at us, look at what our city was?  Did you think, with everything we had gone though, everything we had seen, we were ever going to win?!  How many of us die in glorious battles that ultimately mean nothing?  How many of us fled to Iceheart’s people just because life among _us_ was shite?”

                “Halone’s will is…”  The scream of a woman made Stephan trail off.  As one, everyone’s heads turned.  A red and white-clad form thrust out a smaller, wriggling one over the railing of the Vault’s roof.  Kauchoix felt his heart stop, and dimly he heard a strangled gasp from Jeannoix.

               _That’s…that’s a priest…_ His mind tried to make sense of what was before him, even as his body was preparing for action.  But before he could even move, the small form started to fall.  Horror iced though Kauchoix, and dimly he could hear a scuffle-Matthaios seizing a chance to break free from Stephan.  A flash of color out of the corner of his eye-Jeannoix had jumped, intending to try and help, but that little body was falling far too fast, and Jeannoix was too far-

 

                The next several moments were a blur.  One moment, he saw the small figure falling-and then the next, she wasn’t there-but something else was.  A large, muscular frame, white wings and a long tail- Kauchoix felt his heart leap into his throat, and he stared uncomprehending at what was circling in the sky.

                _A dragon._ And as he watched it come in for a landing, he could see something else…that tiny body, safe and secure.

                “Kauchoix!”

                “Did you just…did you just see…”  Kauchoix shook his head, forcing himself to snap back to the present.  “Matthaios!”

                “I’m alright.”  The half-elezen was grim, a long bloody gash beneath his right eye. On his knees in front of him was Stephan, who was staring at the Vault rooftop where the priest had been.  “Brucemont’s calling over the pearl.  He and the others managed to regain the Congregation, and it sounds as if the Vault’s been secured.  We’ve stopped the attack.”  Kauchoix nodded, his gaze dropping to Stephan.  The hyur’s skin was pale, pupils dilated with shock.

                “That…that was…”  He looked at the two elezen, and then bowed his head.  Kauchoix swallowed, turning his attention to Matthaios.

                “Call for reinforcements.”  He said.  “We need to get back.”


	27. Brotherhood

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> In the face of being broken, the Knights-Dragoon rally.

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> (Just going to leave this here... *slides over to corner* Nothing but pure theory for this chapter. I beg your indulgence.)
> 
> \----------

                It was a grim assembly that gathered in the main Knight-Dragoon meeting hall.  Bound and held at spearpoint were the instigators of the attempted mutiny.  Lying on a bier not too far away was the body of Louis, covered with a white cloth.  His patrol partner was being held tightly by a fellow first year, hot tears spilling down his face as he glared at one of the prisoners, a elezen in gold drachen-mail.  Not far away from the elezen was Stephan, his head bowed.  Matthiaos was standing behind him, swallowing thickly as he kept his Gale Bog pointed at the hyur’s back.  A battered Brucemont faced the room, flanked by Lucian and Celeste.

                “…Your attempt to take over the city has failed.”  He wanted to scream.  He wanted to howl.  He and Bastien wanted to fall upon the traitors and decorate the room with their blood.  “What remains of your leaders today are currently enjoying the hospitality of the Temple Knight interrogators.”  How was it that his voice was so calm?  Couldn’t anyone hear his screams?  Brucemont lifted his gaze towards the bier.

                _He just passed his first year three suns ago…_

                “You are liars, traitors, and child-murderers.”  The blue haired elezen stalked towards the bier.  Snatching off the white cloth, he spun about on a heel and threw it at the gold-armored dragoon, who flinched.  “He was a child, compared to us!  And another one nearly lost her life today!  She would have joined those innocents who died when your fellows set the fires in the Brume!  And for what?  Halone’s name?!  You think our goddess demands the blood of children for a holy crusade?!  The death of the men and women that our spears, our lives are sworn to protect?!”  The room was deathly silent.   “Did you forget your knightly oaths, the promises you swore when you joined us?!  We do not fight for the nobles, we do not fight for the Church-we fight for the common man and woman!  Those among us who cannot lift a weapon in their defense-it is for them that we bleed and suffer, even sacrificing our sanity!” Brucemont stopped, trying to collect himself. 

                “…I thought that we could be above this.”  He began.  “It is not our place to be drawn into the affairs of theology or of politics.  We have had much put upon us, but we have continued to rise above it…”  He trailed off, closing his eyes.  “But perhaps this is our breaking point.”  Now a ripple of sound snaked though the room.  The blue-haired elezen opened his eyes.

                “I will leave now to tell Louis’ mother of his death.  All of you…”  He let his gaze roam.  “Have the night to think long and hard on what it is that you truly want.  At daybreak, if you still wish to fight, to continue to honor the vows that you have taken or wish to take, I expect you to meet me here.  But if no-one comes, I will take that as a sign that it is long past our time, and I will report to Ser Aymeric that the Knights Dragoon will be disbanding.”  Horrified gasps, but Brucemont made himself turn away, heading for the door. 

 

\-------

 

                Hours later, Brucemont returned to the Congregation.  The Knight-Dragoon area was dark, and nobody waylaid him as he made his way towards the small chapel to Halone that served as the Order’s main place of worship.  The sacred space was dark save for the light of a few small candles, and a lingering note of incense was still in the air.  As he approached the statue, Brucemont fell to his knees.  Emotions boiled inside him-grief, sorrow, pain, rage-he hurt so badly that he couldn’t even breathe, couldn’t think.  He wanted to scream, but couldn’t, and he could feel the same tangled mess of emotions bleeding into him from Bastien.  With a moan he leaned forward until his head was resting on the stone floor.  Hot tears began to trickle down his cheeks, and his entire body started to shake from the force of his sobs.  A high-pitched wail joined in-Bastien, crying out his own grief in the only way he could. 

                _I don’t know what to do anymore, I don’t know what to do anymore, I don’t know what to do anymore…_   Brucemont sobbed, his fingers curling into fists.  _I’ve tried everything, I don’t know what to do anymore._

                “I don’t even know if I can pray to you anymore.”  His voice cracked.  “I don’t know how to see, how to think.  My brothers and sisters flounder under me, and I may be the reason why our order falls.”  His breath hitched.  “I don’t know what to do.  I don’t know what to do!”  Brucemont looked up to the statue, eyes bloodshot.

                “Give me direction!  Give me guidance!  Give me something!”  He screamed, and then crumpled to the floor as exhaustion overtook him.  “Please…”

                _Please…_

 

\---------

 

                “Ah hells.  He is going to feel that when he’s more awake.”

                “Well that’s what he gets for falling asleep on the floor like that.”  Brucemont slowly opened one eye.  He recognized the voices…  “But I suppose it can’t be helped.  Get everyone in here, will you?”

                “You want them to see him like this?!”

                “Hey, better to do it now before people get fucking cold feet, aye?”  Footsteps, and then Brucemont felt himself being shaken.

                “Hey fearless leader.  You want to get up now?” 

                “Ma…Matthaios?”  Brucemont swallowed, his lips were dry, and his throat felt like sandpaper.  He cracked open one eye-aye, it was the Fortemps dragoon in the flesh.  “What…”

                “You said daybreak, remember?  When you didn’t arrive, we got worried.”  With a groan, Brucemont pushed himself up into a sitting position.  “Though Lucian’s…oh hey, that was fast.”

                “What?”  Brucemont started as two sets of hands took him by the arms, helping him to his feet.

                “Some of us have patrols, you know.”  Coldfire said to his right.

                “My family’s been dragoons for generations now.  If it ends up I’m the last one, I’m probably going to hear it from my ancestors when I pass on!”  Arlette commented.

                “You two…”  Brucemont turned his head, and then stopped.  Crammed into the small chapel, the door, and as far as he could see-stretching out into the hallway, were the men and women that had been in the meeting-hall last night, along with a few faces he didn’t recognize.  Servants, armorers, squires, first year and junior dragoons, along with the seniors and trainers…

                “You all…”  Hope rose inside him, and Bastien trilled quietly.  “You…came.”

                “What did you think, we were going to say no?”  Lucian’s tone was acerbic.  Another dragoon pulled away to stand before Brucemont-another House Dzemael member, the blue-haired elezen noted.  He glanced over at Kauchoix, who grinned and nodded.

                “I’m ashamed to say I was strongly considering throwing in my lot with the Brothers.”  He said.  “I know you’re not as devout, but…”  He paused.  “The idea of peace with those who killed our kin, our families…it doesn’t feel right to give up the idea of avenging them.  And as for what the Church taught us…we grew up with it.  It was the only thing sometimes that got us through.  But…you’re right.  This whole thing is bigger than us.  We’re to serve the people first.”  Brucemont bowed his head.

                “…I never meant to make light of what those among us have suffered at the hands of the dragons.”  He said.  “Nor to those whom faith in Halone helped them through trying times.  Of course, it’s not going to sit right that we can’t avenge the hurts we have suffered at the hands of the Dravanians.  But…”  He looked out at the crowd. “If one day, we could have people look up at the skies not in fear…but in anticipation, in joy, wouldn’t that be worth giving peace a chance?”  Low murmurs rippled though the crowd, and heads nodded.  Brucemont looked around the crowded chapel again, feeling his heart twist.

_They all came.  They all came…_ He swallowed back a sudden lump in his throat.  He could pick out absences here and there, but aside from that… 

                < _This is good. >_   Bastien whispered. _ <All of them, kin and friends.>_

                “Aye.”  Brucemont whispered.  “They are.”


	28. Squires (3)

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> As the dust from the Brothers' coup settles, the Order begins to catch it's breath.

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> (Right. Theorycraft explanation time. A very quick Google search brought up the fact that if it is serious enough [at least for the UK], a Knight can be stripped of their title and rank. While I didn't look more for how such a thing could be done in medieval times, I figured I would go with a combination of a Ishgardian losing their knightly status plus damnatio memoriae.
> 
> Damnatio memoriae was a coin termed by the Romans for the ancient-world practice of completely removing a person from the historical records. Their names, their deeds-everything, wiped out. To the Romans this was a fate worse than death. Given the ingame lore and structure of Ishgard, I felt that this possibly would have been a punishment that could be meted out.
> 
> The idea of 'right of Saint Reinette' came from the fact that in-game, Saint Reinette is a Ishgardian woman who after her lover was killed, became a dragoon to avenge his death. After she slew the dragon, she gave up her drachen-armor and became a nun, helping the poor. While it's said the Church didn't approve of her actions and only canonized her in an attempt to distract from how corrupt it had become, I had the idea that women in Ishgardian society could possibly claim rights to perhaps participate in battles/duels for family honor or avenge murders by invoking her name. 
> 
> Lucian's suggestion on 'old stories of knight families allying with dragons' is a nod to a theorycraft plotline I ran with my dragoon some time back. As shown during the HW MSQ and Dark Knight questline, drinking dragonblood can not only grant magical abilities, but it can pass down to any descendants. It's a theorycraft I've touched on before in previous chapters as well, the idea that there were old, very old Ishgardian families who possibly had friendly relations/still engaged in friendly relations with dragons and their offspring bore the results of such friendship.)
> 
> \------------

                Reinhardt exhaled, looking down at his tray.  It was his favorite, savory meat stew with fresh-baked knight rolls.  Normally, he would be midway through, but the events of the morning had robbed him of his appetite.

                “You too?”  Reinhardt looked up.

                “Arsune.”  He said.  The elezen nodded hello, sliding into the seat next to Reinhardt.

                “…I’d heard about the stripping ceremony, but never seen one.”  He said.  “Nor a woman participating like that…”

                “She invoked the right of Saint Reinette.  They had to.”  Reinhardt answered.  It had been a fortnight since the Brothers’ attempted coup.  To begin negating the damage done, Aymeric had started to reach out to the members of the Church for talks, and to offer more details on what had happened.  At the same time, he had to deal with making sure punishments were dealt out…Louis had not been the only one who had died.  Yet his death had been the most exposed in the public eye.  The day after his burial, Louis’ mother had been found lying dead atop her son’s newly-turned grave. 

                Any hopes of Aymeric or anyone else talking Brucemont into showing mercy had fled.  The First Lance had demanded that after his trial, Louis’s former master be handed over to the Knights Dragoon for his punishment and death.  For the first, it involved the public destruction of his drachen-armor, his weapon, awards and medals, along with all records of his deeds.  This had been done by Louis’ fiancée.  While her invoking the right of Saint Reinette had allowed her to also be executioner, she had allowed Louis’ patrol-partner to carry out the deed instead.  As a final ignominy, Brucemont had opened the whole thing to the public. 

                “Never fuck with a House Dzemael member…”  Another squire said, setting down his tray near the two.  “I forgot Brucemont was one of them until today.”

                “Don’t you also mean don’t fuck with us?”  His companion replied.  “Because I thought that was also the point of today-hell, of what happened to the others!  Even the servants who participated, they can’t ever work anywhere in Coerthas ever again-hells, even Dravania!”

                “My master said Aymeric should have killed the lot of them.”  Arsune said, looking at his plate.  “Instead, letting them live just means that there’s going to be trouble later down the line.”

                “But if he killed all of them, they would have been made martyrs, and you know how much the Church adores those!”  Reinhardt picked up a knight-roll, dunking it into his soup.  Then something caught his eye, and he glanced over to the side.  Dead-Eye and another senior dragoon were clustered together, speaking softly.

 

 

                “Arsune’s approaching his fourth trial?”

                “Aye.  And Beauregard is nearing his third…”  Jeannoix consulted a paper.  “There’s high hopes that Arsune will survive his fifth, but Matthaios can’t get anything out of Pendragon for what he’s planning for Beauregard’s possible fifth.”  He exhaled.  “Newling’s been one hell of a surprise.  He’s getting deadly quick on his feet, and that white armor he wears?  He likes to blend in with his environment.”  Lucian snorted.

                “Sneaky little punk.”  He crossed his arms. “Did they release a final tally on how bad this business hit us?”  Jeannoix nodded.

                “Aye.”

                “And?”  Lucian prodded, looking over.  Jeannoix was quiet for several moments.

                “We…barely have any reserves left.”  He said.  “We can safely lose possibly another 3-5 people in any category, and we’ll have the replacements to cover them-especially if the squires left pass all their drachen-mail trials.  But after that, we’ll have nobody to replace _them_.”  He looked at Lucian.  “If Nidhogg comes and hurls his Horde against our walls, and we lose at least half of our forces, we’ll be crippled.  Lose more than half…and Brucemont is going to have to make the call on if we can recover or die.”  Lucian met Jeannoix’s gaze, and then sighed.

                “…It is what it is.”  He said, closing his eyes.  “But I won’t lie…I would very much like for us to live, to advance.  These men and women have worked so hard to get this far.”  He opened his eyes as Jeannoix put a comforting hand on his back. 

                “Things could change.”  He said.  “We have the Warrior of Light, and can you believe it-you and I have actually lived to see the Dravanians be willing to talk peace with us!”  Lucian chuckled wryly, shaking his head.

                “I wouldn’t have believed it myself.  Although…”  A thoughtful look crossed his features.  “Thinking about us being at peace with the dragons, doesn’t that remind you of those stories you’d hear every now and again?”  Jeannoix frowned.

                “Stories?” 

                “You know.  Those ones that’d get you in trouble with the Inquisitors.  About those old knightly families that were supposedly allies with the dragons all the way back at Ishgard’s founding.”  Lucian said.  “Ones that were supposed to have partaken of dragon-blood, and gained all sorts of powers…”

                “Oh, _those_.”  Jeannoix said.  He tilted his head.  “Well, now that you really think about it, maybe there might be some truth to those?  I mean when you look at us, and look at all the past dragoons, there’ve been a couple of odd ones, aye?”  He cast his gaze back over the hall.  “Hell, you can probably classify those two…”  He pointed at Arsune and Reinhardt.  “In that category.”

                “Leggy boy didn’t start getting weird until after he had that mouthful of dragon-blood.”  Lucian said.  “Beauregard on the other hand, I started looking over his files.  His trainers always noted how bloody fast he was, plus there’s those skills with wind-aether.”   He exhaled, watching the elezen and the hyur talk.

                “Either way, things are about to get interesting.”  Jeannoix said.  He glanced over at the far wall. “Ah shite-it’s almost meeting time.  I need to go.”  Lucian turned his head.

                “Meeting?”

                “Brucemont and the High House quartet are about to see what they can do with the patrol strings to give us a little leeway.  Plus, there’s mention of them finally announcing who gets to go to Anyx Trine and start to make nice with the dragons.”

                “They found a replacement for Stephan?”  Lucian asked, surprised.

                “Yep.  She got installed this morning.”  Jeannoix turned on a heel, offering a wave.  “I’ll update you with what happened!”


	29. Restructure

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> Realizing they have a long road ahead of them the Knights Dragoon begin to buckle down, while an idea for their future after Nidhogg is given voice.

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> (I can't remember where I read it exactly, but it is mentioned in the lore somewhere that the dragons of Anyx Trine remember powerful monsters that 'came up from the south' that needed both the skills of the proto-Ishgardians and the dragons themselves to defeat. Also it is canon for the voidsent being at the bottom of Witchdrop; they are encounterable mobs.
> 
> The aspect of there being nastier creatures in Coerthas is an idea of my own making, but one I would feel has merit given the situation. Also on the idea of the dragoons having to reduce their patrols-while it is a unwise idea, it's something that I also think would have some merit and could have possibly been floated as a plan if their numbers were to drastically drop. It's not the greatest and best idea, but better to have guard coverage over what's most important rather than have gaps in a line of defense.)
> 
>  
> 
> \-------------

                Stephan’s replacement was a petite hyuran woman named Therese.   She could drink and swear like the most seasoned Limsan sailor, and currently had the highest dragon-kills on record for House Durendaire.  Yet if anyone dared make a crack about her height they would find themselves regretting it instantly, as the business end of a spear (or a foot, perhaps a fist, depended on the occasion) would suddenly slam hard into a body’s more painful places.   

                She was also Gaétan’s—the main cook for the Knights Dragoon—daughter.  Rumor had already spread that Gaétan had already threatened Brucemont with death if anything untoward (namely Matthaios) happened to her.  However, he was unaware that Matthiaos had already decided to give up his manwhoring ways for Illaenne.  Given the Order’s restriction on fraternization, the two had decided to keep it quiet for now until they could figure out a way to present it to Brucemont.  Naturally, this meant everyone else knew, and bets had already been placed on when Brucemont was going to speak on the matter.

                However, the business today did not involve the betting pools (unofficially), but more urgent matters…

 

\-----------------

 

                “You’re late, Jeannoix.”

                “Sorry, got held up.”  Matthiaos moved over as his partner slipped onto the bench next to him.  “Did I miss anything?”

                “Matthiaos just told us that Count Edmont is stepping down as head of Fortemps, and Artoirel will be taking his place.”  Brucemont said, gesturing. 

                “Only way to get everyone else to shut the hell up over what happened.”  Matthaios said darkly.

                “I know that comment was aimed at my House, but at this point I have as much control over my House head as you do yours.”  Kauchoix said, not moving from where he was lying down on the floor.  “And trust me, give him a little time and he’ll start bitching about the older son too.”

                “I can’t do anything for mine either.”  Therese said.  She leaned back, crossing her arms.  “But nobility business aside, what’s this about wanting to condense down the patrol-strings?  Can we even do that?”

                “It’s not honestly recommended, but at this point we don’t have a choice.”  Illaenne said.  “If we lose people and must dip into our reserves, and we lose some of _them_ , we’ll be short on bodies for the strings regardless.  Might as well start seeing what we can keep for now and what we can’t.”

                “We can scratch the fucking castrum patrols.  Nothing is going on there, and nothing possibly ever will.  The unit we have out there can be better served someplace else.”  This came from Brigid, with Coldfire nodding next to her.  Brucemont nodded, removing a paper token from a wall-map of the Central Highlands. 

                “Keep in mind that this needs to be revisited at some point.”  He said.  “But castrum patrols, gone.  What else?”

                “The Dravanian patrols?  Or at least, cut them down so they’re scouts?”  Another dragoon offered.  “I mean-if anything, the Anyx Trine dragons would be willing to warn us if Nidhogg’s on the way?”

                “We ain’t that friendly with them yet, plus from the bits and pieces I’ve gathered, they’ve stayed out of the affair.”  Came a comment from the back of the room.

                “Could probably pull out period, because we don’t have full maps of the area.  Without those, we can’t tell which way the Horde might take to come to Ishgard.”  Jeannoix mused. 

                “I would prefer that we keep a unit or two in Dravania.”  Brucemont said.  “Yes, they’d be relegated to scout work, but I’d like to start thinking long-term options after Nidhogg’s defeat.”  This comment got the full attention of the room, all eyes focused on the First Lance.  “Arlette, do you want to tell them what you discovered in your research?”  Arlette rose, nodding.

                “Aye, ser.”  She turned to face her fellow dragoons.  “As you know, the Church is no longer in power.  All the obvious implications and chaos we’ve had aside, it also means many old records that were sealed off are now, thanks to the Lord High Commander, accessible.  Brucemont ordered me to peruse some of the older documents that the Inquisition had locked away, and I found something rather interesting.”

                “Which was?”  Matthiaos asked, curious.

                “That the Dravanian lands-and our Western Highlands, were said to play host to a fair number of more powerful monsters that were rumored to come up from the south.”  Arlette said.  “Now I don’t know how completely true that is, but there are sporadic reports in the official Knight Dragoon records of encounters with such creatures.”

                “There’s also something else.”  Brucemont added.  “For some odd years now, there have been stories of more darker entities making their home in some areas of Corethas.  Many of us have heard about voidsent living at the bottom of Witchdrop.”  Heads bobbed.  “The Stone Vigil-well, we all know what happened there.  There’s parts of Coerthas that had to be abandoned when the snow set in, that may have Halone-only-knows what.”

                “So, you think after Nidhogg’s death, in addition to us possibly dealing with his brood seeking revenge, we might be running into all sorts of creatures?”  Coldfire asked, leaning forward.

                “We very well could be.”  Brucemont said.  “And compared to the Temple Knights, we would be the ones with more experience in dealing with more…powerful foes.”  He gestured.  “I know it’s too early, but it’s something I’d like all of us to keep in mind.  We’ve never really considered what we would be doing after Nidhogg’s defeat, and I’d like some sort of structure set up for that.”

                “Speaking of Nidhogg…”  Kauchoix sat up.  “Have…you made a full decision as of yet, First Lance?”  Brucemont sighed, looking to the side.

                “…I will be asking for volunteers to join myself in creating a support unit for the Warrior of Light and her Companions when they move to attack.”  He said.  “Right now, that seems to be the best solution.  Were we to engage him-he has knowledge of all of us, and it would amount to little more than a bloodbath.  As for how we’re going to be able to fight him yet, I don’t know.  I need to meet with the Lord High Commander and discuss that situation.”  Heads bobbed again.

                “…We could probably trim down a unit in the Sea of Clouds.”  Another dragoon interjected.  “I know that’s a major watch-area for us, but Hallienarte all but has their entire House army over it…”  Brucemont looked to Illaenne.

                “Can we?”  The female elezen frowned, crossing her arms.

                “…I don’t like the idea, but I think the House could cover it.”  She said slowly.  “I’d have to check.”  Brucemont nodded, removing another paper token.

                “We can…”  He considered the map. “The string for the Coerthas/Gridanian border.  That unit can be reassigned.  Along with…the Thanalan border.”  He removed two more tokens.  Kauchoix counted on his fingers.

                “That’s twelve.”  He said.

                “Six to join the other Central Highlands strings, six for the Western Highlands.  The units in Dravania will be changed out for members who are powerful in aether that can use the teleport crystals.”  Brucemont said.  “If you’re assigned to either one of those two, and you see anything, come straight here.”

                “What about the newlings if they pass their final tests?”  Jeannoix asked.

                “Split with the rest of you all between the Central and Western Highlands.”  Brucemont paused, going over his agenda mentally.

                _I think that should be all of it._ He didn’t like scrambling about, but at this point there was no other choice.  For the Order to make it though this period of chaos unscathed, they either had to adjust or die.

                "Does anyone have any questions?"


	30. Family

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> A brief respite for the Order allows some to spend time with their loved ones.

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> (Dedicated to the following people: glyphenthusiast, dragons-bones, autumnslance, and garlean-nonsense. Thank you for always reading, and for the words of encouragement. Your support has helped me through a really bad time and as I continue to get on my feet. Please accept this as a token of my appreciation, though it is a poor offering compared to what you've done for me.) 
> 
> \-----------------

               There was a saying among the Knights-Dragoon, ‘widowed the moment wed’.  It was a grim reminder that anyone who bound themselves to a dragoon faced the possibility of welcoming their loved one home on a bier every single time a patrol went out.  The mortality rates for relationships in the Knights Dragoon were much higher than that of the Congregation, for even if the dragoon returned alive, there was the stress of long separations, battle mind, being poor…a fact which shocked many.  Unless they were born or adopted into a noble family, or had particularly distinguished themselves, a Knight-Dragoon made just enough to support themselves.

 

                But not all relationships were so grim.  There were men and women who had faced down the worst so far that being a dragoon-spouse could bring, and still stuck by their partner.  Love was their foundation, not a desire for money or status.  They were the ones who quietly endured the long separations, who whispered prayers to Halone to keep their loved one safe, and often took a more active role within the Order themselves.  Many learned the healing arts, the better to help patch up cuts and bruises when a weary body in drachen-mail came through the front door, and to help with the terrors that came from a mind always in battle.  Others learned smithing, the better to help at least keep the drachen-mail and Gale Bog in working order.  They formed small support groups-the better to watch each other when their loved ones were gone, it was always nice to have someone check up on you.  And when their spouse did return safe and sound, they did their best to make sure that home was at least calm and restful…

 

\-----------

 

                Baronness Riven Pendragon fought back a flush as the housekeeper brought over a cup of tea.  Next to her, her husband lay dead-or at least partly dead-to the world.  Riven knew from experience that Vahn could snap awake at a moment’s notice if needed.  He’d returned home from his patrol in the dead of night, stumbling in from exhaustion and cold.  Riven’s first inclination had been to get him under the covers for a well-earned nap, but one kiss had well…resulted in a slight change of plans on both their parts. 

                “Thank you, Martha.”

                “Will you be staying in with the lord master this morning?”  Riven fought back another blush, making sure the covers were carefully pulled around her.

                “I actually will be getting up after this cup to take care of some matters.  I know Vahn has had some appointments, but this morning…”  She shook her head.  “I’ll be seeing what I can safely cancel or delay.  He needs some time without all the noble…”  She gestured.  “Hoopla.”

                “Very good, my lady.”

 

 

                “Name a Second.”  The flatly-delivered statement made Kauchoix lift his eyes from the letter he was reading. 

                “Roi.”  At the foot of the bed, another Duskwright elezen crossed his arms.

                “Name a Second.”  He repeated.  Kauchoix bit back a growl of frustration.

                “You know I can’t name one!”

                “Why not?”  Roi challenged.  Kauchoix gave his lover a deadpan stare.

                “Have you forgotten what House we’re under?”  He said, then started as Roi came over and snatched the letter out of his hand. “Oi!”

                “Name a Second.”  Roi snapped, starting to pick the rest of the letters off the bedspread before the dragoon could get to them.  “And yes, I know what House we’re under, it’s a reason why you should have a Second!  Illaenne has one, Matthiaos has one, even the new Durendaire dragoon got one!  You need someone to help you keep up with the bloody infernal scheming that goes on in this viper pit, and to give you a break!”  Kauchoix sighed, swinging his legs over the bed’s side.

                “Roi, it’s not that easy.  I can’t pick a Second like how I can pick dinner.”

                “You’ve had applicants!”  Roi snapped.  Then he turned his head away as Kauchoix reached out to embrace him.

                “Roi…”

                “You work yourself to the bone when you’re on duty, you work yourself to the bone when you’re home, you don’t get any rest—” Roi’s shoulders sagged, and he looked at Kauchoix with teary eyes.  Kauchouix felt his stomach twist with guilt. 

                _He has a point…_   The elezen sighed, leaning in to press a kiss to his partner’s forehead.

                “You’re right.”  He said softly.  “I need a Second.”  Roi sniffed, sucking in a quick breath.

                “I…I’m sorry.  I know you have exacting requirements.”  He replied.  “I just…Kauchoix, I want you to _rest_.  You can’t stay on top of things if you’re tired, and if you show one bit of weakness in this House the wolves pounce.  Twelve only know there’s eyes on you now with all this business with the dragons.”  Kauchoix nodded, resting his hands atop Roi’s upper arms.

                “How’s this. I’ll put away all the paperwork, and then I’m at your disposal for the day.”  He said.  “I’ll do whatever you want.”  Roi smiled.

                “Anything?”  He asked, reaching up to play with Kauchoix’s collar.

                “Anything.”  Kauchoix said. 

 

 

                “Let your new papa sleep, darling.”  Callix grunted, stretching.

                “Is alright, let him in.”  He mumbled. 

                “You sure?”

                “Is fine.”  The elezen muttered sleepily.  With a contented sigh he reached out, draping an arm over the boy who was cuddling into his side.  A faint smile crossed his face as a warm female body pressed into his back.

                “Need to get up at some point and start breakfast…”

                “It can wait a bit.”  Callix mumbled.  “We won’t starve.”  He could feel the stress and strain of the past few days seep out of him, the soft breathing of his adopted son and his new wife a soothing balm for his nerves. 

                “Have to go in this afternoon to the laundry.”  His wife muttered sleepily.  Callix rolled onto his back, stretching out his other arm to pull his wife closer.

                “More sleep, less talk.”  He grumbled.

                “Aye Master Dragoon.”  Another smile played over Callix’s face, and he moved to press a kiss to his wife’s cheek.

                “Mmm.”

 

               

                “Are you sure you wouldn’t want something a little more…delicate?”  The merchant asked.  Matthiaos shook his head, his eyes not leaving the jewelry tray.

                “No.  This one.”  Under the light, a betrothal bracelet of white gold shimmered, rubies, sapphires and emeralds sparkling.  The Fortemps dragoon exhaled, trying to calm his nerves.

                “Very good, ser.”  Matthiaos watched as the bracelet was picked up and artfully arranged in a leather box.  “And may I ask how you will be paying?”

                “Gil, if that’s alright.”  The price of the bracelet was steep, but Matthiaos knew he could afford it.  He’d been wise enough to invest a small bit of his pay in trade when Ishgard had reopened its’ gates to Eorzea.  His returns weren’t what you would call considerable, but it had been enough to give him a tiny bit of savings and afford the bracelet.

                “The receipt as well, ser?”

                “Please.”  Matthiaos got out, his throat suddenly dry.  Logically it was the smart thing, because if Illaenne said no, he would have to return it.  Pulling on his collar, the dragoon made a mental note to visit Memphina’s shrine in the Central Highlands.  The goddess of love was also a popular deity in the Order, and Matthiaos felt he needed all the help he could get.

                “Could you make sure it’s well wrapped?”

### 

  


	31. Setback

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> The dragoons find themselves reeling after the first failed peace summit at Falcon's Nest, and a hard realization hits home for the entire Order.

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> (Regarding the first failed peace summit at Falcon's Nest: It was interesting to see that the Brothers of the True Faith were primarily clergy and military, while the revolt at Falcon's Nest was more civilian-based. SE I feel, did a good job there showing the effects of the push for peace on people who were clearly unprepared. Personally, I fall into the camp of 'things weren't as nice and tidy' as how it was shown. I feel that for a very long time, possibly two/three generations worth, Ishgard would be dealing with the repercussions of ending the Dragonsong War on all levels. Noble families/merchants who benefited from the Church's grip on power or with the continual demand for armor/weapons would surely find themselves on the out, and if they couldn't adapt, would be willing to do anything to return things to the way they once were. 
> 
> Also mention of the sex closet: >.> Because come on, we all know there's been one place at one job where people went off to do hanky-panky.)
> 
> \-----------

                Brucemont exhaled, trying to center himself.  The infirmary was full, but praise the Twelve it wasn’t with fatal injuries.  Bumps, bruises, arrows that had gotten lucky and found the gaps in the drachen-mail, swords that had done the same—but nobody was dead, nobody was severely injured.  However…

                “Therese.”  The Durendaire dragoon lifted her head, skin pale.  Brucemont noted that she was trembling, but the look in her eyes told him it was from rage more than fear.  She didn’t need to be taken to task, she needed to be calmed down.  “Report.”

                “Ser.”  The hyuran woman nodded, swallowing.  “It seems to have been the smallfolk this time.  Many of them working at Falcon’s Nest and the surrounding area.  They monitored when we were going out and coming in, the same for the Durendaire fighters and the Temple Knights…”  Therese swallowed again.  “No connection it seems to the Brothers right now.”

                “Fucking hellfire…”  Matthiaos groaned from a nearby bed.  His left shoulder was being bandaged.  “And idiot lording didn’t help anything, he made the matter worse!”

                “What happened there?”  Brucemont asked.

                “Screamed for the men to fire, and some fool shot at the bitch.”  The Fortemps dragoon was blunt.  “And just her luck, it fucking hit her! Now she’s a bloody martyr to all those fools and there’ll be even more problems now!”

                “It may be worse than that.”  Kauchoix said quietly.  He watched as every gaze in the ward landed on him.  “Before I came here, I heard a report.  The Warrior of Light was found unconscious in the tavern.  The theory is that they disabled her first, then launched their attack.”

                “She’s not dead, is she?!” Illeanne demanded.  Then she sagged in relief as Kauchoix shook his head.  “Oh, praise Halone.  That’s the last problem we need.”

                “There were reports of the Convictors threatening to shoot down the dragons’ emissary.”  The Duskwright continued.  “That’s why the Red Rim patrols were diverted.  Not they could have done much anyway.”  He shook his head. “This was just a perfect storm of…well…fuckery.”

                “Hear hear.”  Matthiaos growled.

                “Well, we’re not so good at the peace thing…”  Illaenne offered, trying to lighten the mood.  “But maybe things can only get better from here.”

                “No, it’s going to go to the pit even mor-owowowow…”  Brucemont facepalmed.

                “Illaenne.  Maim your boyfriend on leave-time.”  He snapped.  Silence filled the room.  “Yes, I knew about your highly inappropriate-while-on-duty relationship moons ago.  But as you two are fully grown and were keeping it professional, not to mention I have no control over your personal lives, I don’t care if you two continue fucking like rabbits in the sex-closet—yes, I know about that too.”  Both Matthiaos and Illeanne were bright shades of red, Therese was staring at Brucemont in shock, and Kauchoix was struggling to keep his composure.  The other injured dragoons were either snorting or looking off to the side.  The First Lance exhaled.

                “Therese.”  The Durendaire dragoon snapped to attention.  “How is your lord going to handle this?”

                “I have a meeting with him when I get out of here.  He’s…”  Therese swallowed again, and Brucemont had to pity her and the other Durendaire commanders.  Honor had been besmirched, lives possibly lost, pride singed.  If heads weren’t already rolling, they were about to.  “I expect he’ll be taking immediate action, First Lance.”

                “I expect him to.”  It wasn’t fair for him to pile it on, but there was no choice.  “Remind the Count that attacking any member of the Order, along with knowledge of our patrols is considered treason.”  Therese paled even more, and Brucemont could hear muttering, but he let it slide.  “Then get some rest.  In the morning we’ll revamp the string switches out of Falcon’s Nest.”

                “Do you know if they sent word to the Anyx Trine dragons?”  Matthiaos asked, sitting up with a wince.

                “Aye, they know there’s been a delay.”  Snorts were heard again at Brucemont’s choice of words.  “I’ll be heading to meet with Ser Aymeric now.  You all get some rest.”  The other dragoons watched as he left the room, and Matthiaos dropped his head back on his pillow. 

                “It’s not on you, Therese.  The heat’s probably going to land on Redwall and his people.  We don’t have jurisdiction over ground troops.”  Illaenne was attempting to recover from her earlier embarrassment. 

                “Even so.  Those string shifts…”  Therese dropped onto a chair, putting her head in her hands.  This was her first major crisis as a House Dragoon, and one she felt ill-prepared for.

                “We also don’t know how to fight.”  The statement from Matthiaos made every dragoon in the room lift their head and stare at him.  The House Fortemps dragoon turned his head to meet the gazes head on.

                “We don’t know how to fight people.” He clarified.  “I meant it when I said earlier that it was going to go to the pit even more.  You think the Brothers and now this were just random?  No.  All of us-not just us dragoons, but the Temple Knights, the High House armies, the Houses-High, Low, the merchants, the Brumelings…everyone in Coerthas is going to be dealing with this for the rest of our lives and probably our children’s lives.”  His gaze flicked to Kauchoix, who sighed.

                “…He’s right.”  He said softly.  “I can tell you I’ve got my eye on quite a few people in my House that already are under suspicion for potential treasonous acts against the new government.  And not even for House Dzemael, there’s other families as well that all of this…hurt them.  Financially.”

                “There’s a few in Haillenarte.”  Illaenne said.  She sighed, rolling her shoulders.  “Matthiaos is right.  Furthermore, we can’t say we’re not political anymore…because we _are._   Can’t say we’re fully neutral because guess what? We’re right in the Lord High Commander’s camp.  Been there ever since Ser Wrymblood declared us neutral.  Declaring neutrality was a political act in of itself, not to mention going ‘we’ll attack Nidhogg’s Horde, but his brother’s kin and allies are hands off’.”

                “So where does that leave us then?”  Another dragoon asked from his bed.  “We’re doing all we can, we can’t do any more.”

                “We don’t have a choice.”  Therese said.  “We already climbed to the peak and jumped.  Now it’s just a matter of sticking the landing.”

                “Here’s to hoping we don’t fucking misjudge the timing.”  Matthiaos muttered.

 

 

 


	32. Revisionist History

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> While the Grand Melee is plotted out, the Knights Dragoon begin to learn some more of the dragons of Dravania.

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> (So back to heavy theorycraft territory. I always found it strange-and was miffed-that we didn't see any dragoons participating in the Grand Melee. It could be argued that Aymeric could have possibly forgotten about the Order, or maybe decided that they wouldn't engage-because let's be honest, having the Warrior of Light on your team pretty much outstrips everyone else--but then that wouldn't make sense because that would be a **major** insult. And the last thing you want is a branch of the military that is pissed at you. 
> 
> I also feel that at this point, the dragoons possibly could have been starting to learn more about Dravania and the dragons' history. The idea of Vidofnir relocating to Anyx Trine is possibly not lore-friendly, but considering in the Churning Mists the very large-scale FATE that stars Vedrfolnir specifically facing off against a general of Nidhogg's Horde that's hell bent on destroying Zenith, not to mention I believe it is said in the region that Nidhogg's ordered his forces to go after any and all reminders of Proto-Ishgardian/Dravanian alliance [i could be wrong], I felt it safe to make the assumption that Nidhogg's forces could also be going after Hraesveglr's brood due to their refusal to participate in the war. Possibly on his orders. When you really think about it, had he been able to complete his vengeance against Ishgard, who's not to say he could have stopped there? And the dragons of Anyx Trine seem to have a heavy dragonet population.
> 
> He brags to Hraesveglr of being in fighting shape for years during their battle. I believe that if Nidhogg had been able to conquer Coerthas, there's a very real chance he could have not stopped there. The Horde could have been turned on the other dragons of Dravania, or even the Eorzean Alliance themselves.)
> 
> \----------------

                The Grand Melee-while an impulsive idea on Aymeric's part, had proven to be a stroke of political genius.  A wave of patriotism swept over Ishgard, burying the opposition to the city-state rejoining the Eorzean Alliance and to the peace treaty with the dragons.  The High Houses and the other nobles began vying to have their best and brightest join the Temple Knight representatives, while those selected from the Brume Watch trained under the careful eye of Lucia.  All that was missing were the Knights-Dragoon, and so Aymeric made his way over to the Order's half of the Congregation, only to nearly run into a message that had been sent for him.  The unit assigned as the representatives for the Order at Anyx Trine had sent one of their members back, bearing quite a lot of information...

 

 

                "And they just handed this over?"  Alberic Bale, the previous Azure and now current trainer crossed his arms.  "Just like that?"

                "There was no prohibition against them speaking to us, ser.  In fact, the dragon who told us all of this felt it would be useful."  Vahn Pendragon said, gesturing.  "Though...the fact that we helped take out a Gnath assault force might have also tipped the balance."  The older hyur frowned.

                "...It makes an odd sort of sense when you think about it."  He said. 

                "What does?"  Aymeric asked, entering the room.  Immediately the occupants snapped to attention and saluted.  "As you were.  What's this about information from Anyx Trine?"

                "Ser.  I'm a member of the unit assigned to that area to help..."  Vahn paused. "Well, get the dragons used to us.  When we arrived out there to start our shift, the main tower was under attack from the Gnath.  We helped repel them back, which pleased the dragons there greatly.  Later on, one of them came up to our camp and..."  He gestured.  "Started talking.  Normally we would have waited until the string-switch to file reports, but as this concerns Nidhogg, it was decided that I'd come here."  Brucemont nodded.

                "Pendragon and the others learned that the dragons at Anyx Trine are a recent arrival."  He said.  "As in they've only been there twenty years."  Aymeric's eyes widened in shock.

                "What?"

                "It turns out, whenever Nidhogg's forced to go into slumber, his brood and the Horde doesn't just only attack us, ser.   They attack the other dragons of Dravania."  Vahn said.  "Including Hraesvelgr's brood.  And according to what we were told, Hraesvelgr doesn't really do anything about it.  The most attention he's given the matter is allowing one of his children and their brood to act as a defender for the region."

                "Vidofnir became concerned for those under her and their hatchlings.  She didn't want to move because of the number of young they have, but to keep them safe she had no choice but to relocate."  Matthiaos said.  "Another reason why they took up residence at Anyx Trine was because of their refusal to take Nidhogg's side in the war."  Vahn nodded.

                "And, it turns out some of Nidhogg's brood _left_ even before the fighting began all those centuries ago."  He added.  "They were upset at what happened, but only wanted justice brought to those who committed the deed."  Aymeric crossed his arms, listening intently. 

                "I see.  This is useful information, though worrisome."  He mused.  "If Hraesveglr does not even do anything to protect his own kin from his brother, he may not be fully the ally that I was hoping for."

                "It also gives us a better look at dragon dynamics."  Vahn said.  "The dragon we spoke with said that Vidofnir more or less cannot do anything unless she asks it of her sire.  The same goes for her brother-the one acting as the brood's primary defender. His name is Vedrfolnir."

                “But in that vein, wouldn’t Nidhogg’s brood and the Horde need his permission to attack his kin?”  Alberic suddenly ventured.  “And that’s something…”  He paused as the room went very quiet, absorbing the implications of his words.

                “…Either he’s given permission, or they are acting independently whenever he’s forced back into slumber.”  Brucemont said, breaking the silence.  “Both of which are not good.  The former shows that he may not be thinking rationally—were I him, I’d want my brother as my ally.  We’ve been this hard pressed against one brood, but against two?  Coerthas would be in ashes.”

                “The latter possibly showing that he may not have as much control over the Horde as we first thought-and that they could be a problem we suspected they might be after Nidhogg's defeat.”  Matthiaos continued. “Shite.”

                “But if they are acting independently, then we may have an opening.”  Aymeric said.  He gestured.  “If Hraesveglr does not wish to fight, then perhaps…” 

                “Wait.  You want to ask him to fight against his brother?!”  Alberic exclaimed.  Aymeric turned to face the former Azure, nodding.

                “It is something that has been in the back of my mind, aye."  He said.  "Peace I feel he will certainly agree too, based on the results of our initial negotiations so far. But as for his brood brother…”  The Lord High Commander shook his head. “I am not my father, nor am I the Heavens’ Ward.  I know realistically what our forces can handle.  We would be better augmented with Hraesveglr’s brood…or any support we could get from that quarter.”

                “Meaning if he says no, then appealing to one of his children…”  Brucemont began .  Aymeric nodded.  He looked towards Vahn. 

                 “Were you able to obtain any more information?”  He asked.

                  “Yes ser.  There's at least five major dragon-broods in Dravania...well technically, six and a half."  As the present group boggled at him, Vahn continued. "The two major ones are Nidhogg and Hraesveglr, followed by Hraesveglr's children--Vidofnir and Vedrfolnir.  Vishap has a small brood of his own-thus the half, but then there's also Ratatoskr's brood."  _That_ got the full attention of everyone in the room.

                  "Wait a minute-Ratatoskr?!"  Brucemont exclaimed.  " _The_ Ratatoskr?!  Her brood still _**lives**_?!"

                  "Aye."  The hyur said.  "According to what we were told, they took after their dam-wandering the world when she was alive.  After her death, many of them took flight away from Dravania and have never returned.  The ones that remain are hidden--possibly among Hraesveglr's progeny."  Silence filled the room for several moments before Aymeric exhaled audibly.

                 "And here I was coming to ask you who did you wish to field in the Grand Melee!"  He chuckled wryly.  Brucemont blanched, looking at the Lord High Commander.  "We cannot be without dragoons after all, but I know the Order has been hard-pressed."

                 "When...is it?"  Brucemont asked, almost gingerly.  As Aymeric named the date, a collective groan rippled though the room, and the blue-haired elezen closed his eyes, rubbing at the bridge of his nose.  Aymeric blinked.

                 "Is something the matter?"

                 "That's string-switch orn.  Literally." Brucemont replied.  Now it was Aymeric's turn to start.  "And I'll be honest ser, I don't even know if we can spare anyone to fight." To his credit, Aymeric nodded.

                 "If you cannot field anyone, you cannot."  He said.  "No dishonor to it, you have your hands full."  Brucemont opened an eye, peering at Alberic.

                 "Let us go over our numbers and see if we can't come up with something."  He said.  "But I make no promises.  Right now we need to go over what Pendragon has brought and modify our plans accordingly."  He sighed.  "Just our luck Vishap could breed..."  Aymeric nodded.

                 "Send me word of any new developments."


	33. Exposure (1)

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> The beginning of the end...starting with the rescheduled peace summit at Falcon's Nest.

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> (Not much here, just some more theorycraft. Also there might be some formatting troubles, for that I apologize. Things got a little wonky.)
> 
> \----------------

                The orn of the Grand Melee dawned, with nearly the entire city flooding the makeshift arena to watch the battles.  At the eleventh hour, Brucemont had somehow been able to free up a unit to participate, though when their matches were completed they went right back out to their patrol-strings.  The news that Ishgard had won brought cheers over the linkpearl-and gil exchanging hands—before it was right back to duty.  
  


                And then the morning of the rescheduled peace summit arrived.  For a change the weather was sunny, the air crisp and clear.  Throngs of people crowded Falcon’s Nest, highborn and lowborn alike.  Security was heightened as well, in the form of the Durendaire House army and the Durendaire dragoons.  It had been learned that Durendaire servants had been responsible for the information leak that had led to the attack at the first gathering.  When Count Durendaire had learned who was responsible, he had been furious.  This time, there would be no mistakes of any sort, or there would be all the seven hells to pay.

 

 

                “…When is the dragon supposed to arrive again?”  Therese felt her right eye twitch at the question.

                “Swear to the gods Richard, if you ask that one more time…”  She growled.  The other dragoon fell silent, though not before Therese heard a whisper.

                “For fuck’s sake, can we not aggravate her?”  Therese bared her teeth, fingers tightening around the hilt of her Gale Bog.  Then an updraft of air distracted her as Illeanne landed nearby.  The elezen dragoon pushed up her helm as she walked over.

               “Unclench.”  She advised in a low voice.  “If you get like this every time your Count decides to ride your arse you’re not going to survive the year.  We can’t do much anyway, the bulk of the work is on the ground forces.”

              “That’s easy for you to say!”  Therese hissed, before her shoulders sagged.  The Haillenarte dragoon was right and she knew it.  Illaenne gave the younger woman an appraising look, then turned her attention to the courtyard.

              “Anyone figure out just what in the seven hells is under that sheet?”  She asked.

              “No.  The Lord High Commander posted guards so nobody could take a peek-” A dragon’s roar echoed though the sky, and the dragoons suddenly were grabbing for their spears and rushing to their positions.

 _Everyone stand down!_   Brucemont’s voice bellowed over the linkpearl.  _Stand down, it’s the guest of honor!_ Illaenne and the Durendaire dragoons stared at each other for several seconds, before Therese chuckled-abit nervously.

             “We probably need to get on some type of way of identifying our allies from our enemies.”  She said, trying to break the awkward silence.  “Otherwise one or a few of us are going to get a little jump happy.”

            “A thing to bring up to Brucemont as soon as possible.”  Illaenne agreed.  She looked up as Vidofnir began to circle the fortress.  “Everyone back to their positions…and try to relax.  Somewhat.  If possible.”

 

            Kauchoix whistled as Vidofnir landed on the temporary podium. 

           “Good fucking idea they decided to reinforce the wood with stone spells.”  He said. “Otherwise, splinters.”  As Aymeric advanced towards the white dragon, the dragoons themselves were chattering over the linkpearl.

_She’s got muscles…_

_I would not want to be on the receiving end of any blows from those claws!_

_Doesn’t mean she can’t be fast though._

_Uh, hello? Historical moment? Can we all just shut the fuck up and enjoy?_ Kauchoix chuckled, shaking his head.  Joking aside, this was a heavy occasion.  Brucemont’s words had been in the back of his mind ever since the First Lance had spoken them…a day when the Knights Dragoon could perhaps turn to something else.  Fighting monsters would probably be a slight let-down from fighting dragons, but it was probably far more honorable than a war of attrition.

 

         Illaenne frowned, rolling her shoulders. 

        “Lilith, what’s going on?”  She murmured.  Her dragon was stirring, transmitting feelings of unease and defensiveness.  The elezen woman found that she couldn’t relax, turning away from the Lord High Commander turning to face the large drape.  Her eyes scanned the crowd, the skies, the snow-covered landscape just beyond Falcon’s Nest.  Everything was calm.  Yet… 

       “Steelrose here.  Dragons report.” Silence, and then the linkpearl crackled to life.

_Mine’s acting up._

_Shite, you too?  I can’t get mine to settle-_

_Maybe because of our guest?_   Illaenne lowered her hand, turning in place to look at the sky again.  Lilith was beginning to growl now, a bone-chilling sound that was rolling down Illaenne’s spine.  The urge to launch herself into the air was strong, there was something not right.

       “Never!”  The familiar voice made Illaenne spin, heart in her throat.  Lilith was now snarling, and the reason for it was standing atop one of the ramparts on the opposite side of Falcon’s Nest. 

_Oh no, oh no, oh no…_


	34. Horror

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> The Order is left reeling from the events of the peace summit...

 

                Brucemont’s heart was in his throat.  He wanted to move-needed to move, but his body was stone, it wouldn’t respond to his commands.  Bastien had turned into bands of steel wrapped around his chest and back, fearful hisses echoing in his mind. 

               _Oh my gods, oh my gods, oh my gods…_   There was the blood-stained drachen mail he remembered, the familiar feel of the all-powerful rancor…but it was worse.  Ten times worse.  Dimly he could hear screams, but there was also a strange silence-later Brucemont would realize that it was the Knight-Dragoon linkpearl.  As he stood there, the red-armored form suddenly leapt into the air, hovering for just several moments before dropping downward.  Too late did the First Lance realize what was about to happen, and before he could draw in a breath…

 

                 Vidofnir’s screams of pain jarred Matthiaos out of the stupor he was in.  His own dragon was snarling in the back of his thoughts, and as he watched, Estinien jumped from the back of the now-unconscious dragon to another rampart. 

                _Halone guide my spear!_ The rancor that seethed and coiled around Estinien made Matthiaos want to recoil, to flee, but it was the eyes that had him locked in place, staring.  They were moving independently, one fused to the left shoulder, the other to the right forearm.  As from a distance, he could hear Estinien speak, but those weren’t words that the Azure Dragoon would say-

                “ _ **First Lance!**_ ”  The scream in his left ear was an electrical shock to his system, it was the voice of Illaenne.  “ _First Lance, give us the order!  First Lance, do you read?!  Give us the order!_ ”  Estinien had spread his arms, floating up into the air as the red and black miasma engulfed him before exploding outward.  No longer was the form of the Azure Dragoon there, instead there was…

                “Go!”  Matthiaos almost didn’t recognize Brucemont’s voice.  “All units- _after him!_ ”

 

 

                Night came to Ishgard.  For a morning that had started with such promise, with the sun high in the sky, now the evening was dark, filled with despair and gloom.  Homes were tightly shut, curtains, and blankets pulled or nailed/tied over windows so not even any scraps of light could shine out.  Children clung to their parents and guardians with wide eyes, while the remaining faithful to Halone held rosaries in trembling fingers and whispered old prayers.  Heads of the High House armies poured over contingency plans, trying to figure out what to present to their liege lords come morning.

 

                For the first time in a long time, the Knight-Dragoon half of the Congregation was as silent as a tomb.  For not only had Ishgard’s hopes been dashed during the day…but a full unit of senior Dragoons were in the infirmary, fighting for their lives.  Footsteps and conversations were hushed, training was canceled, and the shrine to Halone had no space left for offerings.  Parked in the tiny alcove was Kauchoix, the beads of a rosary laced inbetween his fingers as he looked at the statue of the goddess tucked into the wall.

                “Kauchoix?”  Hearing his name, the Duskwright turned around.  Roi was standing in the doorway with a faint smile, holding a wrapped bundle.

                “Roi.  What are you…”

                “I figured you didn’t have a chance to eat.”  Nodding to the statue, Roi entered the shrine and sat in the pew next to his lover. 

                “I don’t know if I can even eat.”  Kauchoix admitted, looking down.

                “You can try.”  Roi said gently, unwrapping the bundle.  “And…you can tell me what happened.  If you keep it inside, it’ll fester…”  Agony crossed Kauchoix’s features, and he closed his eyes.

                “We couldn’t move.”  He whispered.  “All we could do was just stare.  It…it was him, but it wasn’t him.”  He swallowed.  “Illaenne…she was the first one to get her wits about her.  Not even her, it was the Lord High Commander.  She was second.  I remember her screaming…screaming for Brucemont to give us the order.  Brucemont didn’t even sound like himself when he finally spoke…”  He opened his eyes, staring at his fingers.

                “He was too fast.  We lost him on the way to Red Rim…but the unit there, they were waiting, they’d heard Illeanne over the linkpearl, Brucemont’s order.”  Kauchoix’s body began to tremble.  “When we got there…they were all on the ground…”  Roi’s eyes widened in horror.

                “Nidhogg?”  He whispered.  Kauchoix nodded.

                “He went after them.”  His voice was an agonized whisper.  “We found them-he’d left them behind in the snow, tossed around and broken like toys.  Brigid, Celeste, Laurent, Triyont, Maelys, Durante…”  A sob escaped Kauchoix’s throat, and he buried his face in his hands.  Food forgotten, Roi threw his arms around the dragoon’s back, feeling his heart twist painfully in his chest.

                “Kauchoix…”  There was nothing else he could say, nothing he could do except to hug Kauchoix as he wept, harsh sounds that made Roi want to wail and cry himself.  Closing his eyes, Roi tightened his grip on Kauchoix, beginning to whisper a prayer.

                “Hail Halone, full of mercy, glory is with thee.  Blessed are those who wield your spear, and blessed are those who protect your children.  Holy Halone, mother to us all, grant us your grace now and at the hour of our death.  Hail Halone, full of mercy, glory is with thee…”

 

                They were still in the shrine when a red-eyed Therese came looking for Kauchoix the following morning. 

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> (So this was another difficult chapter to write. The only good explanation I could possibly give for theorycraft regarding the absence of Dragoons when Nidhogg attacks Vidofnir was that they were in shock at seeing what had happened to their leader. Considering possibly how close some dragoons toe the line with their inner dragons and possible stories/examples of dragoons turning into dragons, Estinien/Nidhogg's appearance would have probably been enough to freeze even the most battle-hardened among them. 
> 
> The idea of Nidhogg attacking a dragoon-unit is a pet theory of mine, and one that I think could possibly fit. It would be a good way to torture Estinien, plus further demoralize the will of Ishgard's defenders. 
> 
> Apologizes to anyone particularly religious for bastardizing the RC Rosary prayer to make it fit more in line with what a Halonic worshiper would say.)


	35. Possibility

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> From the lips of a injured Knight-Dragoon, Brucemont is told something that's near impossible to believe.

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> (I crave your indulgence with this, as this chapter is -pure- theorycraft. It continues to expound on the idea of Nidhogg possibly attacking a Dragoon unit as a way to inflict more torture upon Estinien [or also just to be a dick]. 
> 
> As for Estinien-while yes, it does seem to be broadcast publicly about his situation at the end of the main HW MSQ, I noted that it never really came back up in any way in Ishgard until the ending of patch 3.2. The only explanation I could think of from a theoretical point of view could be that Midgardsormr was speaking telepathically to Aymeric and the WoL, and nobody else. Otherwise...you had a group of Temple Knights there. Word WOULD have gotten out.
> 
> The idea of dragonsblood and it's uses/effects on a active-duty Dragoon I expounded upon in an earlier chapter. I do think however that the Knights-Dragoon would have possibly been dealing with some backlash from Estinien/Nidhogg's reveal, though the severity of it is debatable.)
> 
> \-----------------

                “They’ll live.”  An audible sigh of relief echoed though the meeting room.  Brucemont released a breath that he’d been holding, nodding before he continued.  “When they’ll be back on their feet, it’s not known yet.”        
  
                “Doesn’t fuckin’ matter, they’re alive.”  A voice commented from the back.  Brucemont nodded again, looking around.  His entire body ached, and he wanted nothing more than to lie down and never get back up-a sentiment he knew everyone in the room shared.  However…

                “I ordered this recall for two reasons.  One, with what happened yesterday, there needs to be a discussion on the immediate future of the Western Highlands strings.”  He began.  As voices started to raise, the blue-haired elezen held up a hand for silence.  “The second reason is that we’re starting to get blowback regarding what happened to the Azure.”

                “Wait, what?”  Matthiaos’ head popped up, and he looked at Brucemont. “Blowback?”

                “The Inquisition-or more specifically, the former Grand Inquisitor’s people started to come after us this morning.”  Therese said.  “They’re screaming for an investigation.”

                “Of all the fucking-now?!”  Matthaios spluttered.  The other dragoons voiced their agreement.

                “The Lord High Commander and I have a meeting with the Church and the leaders of the High Houses in two bells.  We have his support, but due to what happened yesterday we’re going to have to change our story.”  Brucemont said, holding up his hand again for silence. 

                “Change it to what?”  Callix asked, pushing up the helm of his visor.  “And at this point…can’t we just tell the truth, First Lance?  What can they do to us?”

                “People are already scared.  Ser Wrymblood we can probably explain away due to the Eye and that godsdamned armor, but if you want to go ahead and tell them that hey, for a thousand years their only defense against the dragons can possibly turn into the thing they fear the most-please, knock yourself the fuck out.  Please enjoy the chaos that follows.”  Kauchoix’s tone was scathing.

                “You said you were changing the story?” The question came from Pendragon.   Brucemont nodded.

                “Aye.  Or not so much changing as adding onto it.”  He said.  “We will still say the Azure was away in Dravania-and we were in contact with him, but that he stopped around the time of the attempted coup by the Brothers of the True Faith.  The reason why we changed our setup in Dravania was not only to keep an eye on Nidhogg, but to try to find him.  Obviously, we let the Lord High Commander know, and it was decided to keep it as need-to-know.”

                “…That could work.”  Illaenne mused.  She crossed her arms.  “At least for the High Houses.  I don’t know about the Inquisition…”

                “It’s the best we can do.  Ser Aymeric will work on what few connections he does have left with the church, and hopefully the High Houses will come to our defense.”  Brucemont said.  Lifting a hand, he rubbed it over his face.  “As for the Western Highlands strings…I’m honestly tempted to pull everyone off them and restation in the Central Highlands.  If that bastard attacks another unit, we might not be so lucky as to get help out there in time.”

                “We can’t leave, what about Falcon’s Nest and the other camps?”  Another dragoon called out.

                “They’re more than likely going to get orders if not today, then in the next few days to abandon and come straight to the city.”  Therese answered.  Brucemont was about to add to her statement when he noticed the door at the back of the room open.  In stepped a woman in the colors of a healer novice.  Looking around, she caught his eye and scurried up to the front of the room.

                “First Lance, this is for you.”  She held out a note.  With a frown, Brucemont took the small square and unfolded it.  Reading over the contents, he pressed his lips together before crumpling the paper. 

                “Kauchoix, take over.”  He ordered.  “I need to visit the infirmary.”

 

\-----------------

 

                “He was the first one to wake up.”  Mathye said, pulling out a key that was on a chain around his neck.  “At first, I thought he was feverish-just babbling on, but then I listened…and that’s what made me send that note.”  He inserted the key into a lockbox.  “I think you need to hear it.  But with how bad off he is, I need your permission to do this.”  Brucemont looked at the unconscious Laurent, and then back at Mathye.

                “How long will it set him back?”  He asked, voice quiet.

                “I don’t know.  Dante tends to get overprotective of him when he’s hurt.”  Mathye said.  “He’ll be healed up, but aside from that…”  He trailed off.  Brucemont closed his eyes.

                “…Do it.”  He said.  The healer nodded.  Turning away from the lockbox, he reached for a manacle that was secured to the bedframe.  Gaze hooded, Brucemont watched as Mathye systematically locked up Laurent’s wrists, ankles, and then finally bound the other elezen firmly to the bed by a series of belts secured over his chest and hips.  The manacles and belts were padded to prevent injury, and Mathye moved back over to the lockbox, withdrawing a syringe filled with a ruby-colored liquid.  Features grim, he leaned over Laurent, inserting the needle into a neck vein.

                “Sorry, you two.”  He muttered, then pressed down on the plunger.  Contents administered, he stepped back-and just in time, as Laurent’s eyes suddenly snapped open.  The irises were dragonfire blue, and his face contorted, snarls escaping his throat.  He attempted to thrash about-but due to the bindings, the most he could do was barely squirm.  Another snarl escaped his lips as his gaze first focused on Mathye, then Brucemont.

                “First…Lance?!” 

                “Laurent?”  Brucemont held up his hands, feeling Bastien stir to life inside him.  Fire licked though his veins, and he blinked to try and ease the feeling of his eyes burning.  “Laurent?  Dante?”

                “Y…yesss.”  The bound elezen’s voice was distorted. 

                “Laurent, get in the saddle.”  Mathye ordered.  His voice was warping as his own inner dragon, Hrist was starting to surface.  “Or Dante, ease up.  You’re safe…as safe as we can make you, anyway.”  The elezen attempted to twist about again, his breathing raspy.  The dragon’s blood had acted as a powerful healing potion and stimulant-healing the dragoon’s injuries while at the same time, provoking the inner dragon’s rage. 

                “Mathye said you had something you needed to tell me.”  Brucemont said, moving to sit on the bed.  He reached out for one of Laurent’s hands, hearing Bastien make soothing sounds towards Dante.  He could hear Hrist as well-the two bound dragons crooning songlike to try and calm their kin. 

“He said it was important, it’s why we gave you this.”  Laurent nodded jerkily, his fingers tightening around Brucemont’s own.

                “Nidhogg.”  He swallowed, and Brucemont could see ghost-like, the faint image of Dante coiling around his neck.  “Something happened…to him…after he’d sent…sent Celeste flying.”  Now his voice was changing pitch, becoming deeper, more resonant-evidence of Dante bleeding though. 

                “Acted like…what you call…you mortals.  You call it a fit.”

                “Fit?”  Brucemont repeated, looking at Mathye.

                “When somebody…hurt…in the head.”  The healer’s eyes widened.

                “A seizure!”  He exclaimed.  Laurent/Dante nodded. 

                “That.  We saw him fall.  Roaring in pain.  His body thrashing about-and for a few minutes, he was not dragon.”  He swallowed. “He was mortal. But he kept moving strangely, and then we heard it, a scream.  Not a dragon.”  Brucemont’s lips parted in shock, and he lifted his gaze to Mathye.  The healer stared back at him, eyes wide.

                _< Is he suggesting what I think…>_ Before Bastien could finish, Mathye/Hrist cursed, barreling forward.

                “Laurent!”  The elezen’s eyes had rolled up into the back of his head.  Brucemont scrambled out of the way, watching as Mathye gripped Laurent’s wrists to channel healing aether.  After several moments Laurent’s body relaxed, and his head lolled on the pillow.  His breathing was now steadier, and Mathye slowly let go.

                “He needs to get out of the city while this works out of his system.”  He said.  “Charibert’s minions are skulking about. One mistake is all they need to distract the city away from the much larger problem.”  Brucemont didn’t reply, his mind still reeling from Laurent’s words.

                _…It couldn’t be._   What he had seen at Falcon’s Nest-he was certain that Estinien had died, his very essence choked to death by Nidhogg’s presence, leaving only his body.  Yet from what Laurent had just suggested…

                _< Maybe?>_ Bastien suggested.  Brucemont lifted a hand to his ear.

                “Matthiaos.  Infirmary, now.”


	36. Straws and Preperation

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> Brucemont gives orders for one last attempt at finding anything that may save Estinien, while the final test for a dragoon-squire is approved.

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> (been MIA for a while, sorry. Life has been...well, it's been a bit difficult, and I've been struggling with a fair bit of depression and anxiety. 
> 
> Still in theorycraft territory here, please enjoy!)
> 
> \-----------------------

               “Thordan V, Thordan IV, Thordan III…ah, here it is.”  With a grunt, Matthiaos pulled a leather folio free of the drawer.  A cloud of dust flew up at the item’s dislodging, and the dragoon sneezed.

                “Ah-choo!”

                “Why the hell is Brucemont asking about this shite now?”  Jeannoix asked, waving a hand in front of his face to keep the dust away. “Ser Wrymblood’s dead.  Its a given at this point!”

                “Because, and keep your fucking trap shut because I’m not even supposed to tell anyone…”  Matthiaos shifted, walking over to his desk.  “Brucemont thinks there might be a chance that he’s still alive.”

                “What?!”

                “Laurent and Dante said they saw something.  Nidhogg taking a mortal form, screaming with a mortal voice.  Course they were under the influence of dragon-blood and fucked up to the seventh hell and then some, so…”  Jeannox stared at his partner.

                “That’s not possible.”  He said.  “I’ll give him credit, he lasted far longer than anyone thought he would with that infernal armor but for him to be alive at this point…!” 

                “I agree with you.  But tell the First Lance that.  He wanted me to look though the restricted files on the Fortemps dragoons.”  Matthiaos popped the rotted string on the folio and opened it, taking out several yellowing sheets of parchment paper.  “Wanted to know what the absolute limit was on the chance to reverse the transformation.” 

                “A sennight, right?” 

                “That’s the theory anyway.  But I heard it was dependent on the dragoon’s will.”  Matthiaos answered.  “If you’re fucking stubborn enough, it’s possible to hold out for a fortnight, maybe even a moon.”  He started to go through the papers.  Jeannoix crossed his arms, looking thoughtful.

                “It’s also how the transformation is trigged, right?”  He asked.  “Dragon’s blood is normally what kicks it off, but then I’ve heard stories as well.  Dragoons who had such severe cases of battle-mind that they couldn’t fight it anymore, it was easier to let the dragon take over.  Or they couldn’t subdue their inner dragon, and it eventually gained control.”  The elezen paused as a thought occurred to him, and he looked at Matthiaos.

                “Are you the only one looking, or…”

                “Let’s put it this way.  Fortemps is basically the only House that let the dragoons who turned-let some of them live.  At least for this generation of dragoons.”  Matthiaos said.  A rap on the office door made him quickly set down the folio and papers on his desk, quickly covering it with more files.

                “Who is it?”

                “Pendragon!”

                “Ah, enter!”  The door opened, admitting Vahn.  He fired off a salute to Matthiaos, who nodded. 

                “Captain.  Jeannoix.” 

                “Pendragon.”  Jeannoix replied.  “How’s your wife?”

                “She’s doing well, I see her right after this.”  The black-haired hyur stepped forward, holding out a paper to Matthiaos.  “This is for Reinhardt’s final trial.  I just received word he passed his fourth.”

                “Ah good for him!”  Grateful for the change of subject-and also pleased at the news, Matthiaos took the sheet.  “You’ve done well with him, Pendragon.  He’s a credit to your skills as a dragoon and a teacher.”

                “Now if the boy could just get laid he’d do much better.”  Jeannoix cracked.  “Gods be good, is he really that socially inept?” 

                “That’s being worked on, I assure you!”  Vahn said, holding up his hands. 

                “Maybe him being that much of a stiff sod is Halone’s revenge for you being a complete and total man-”

                “Hold on.”  Matthiaos interjected.  Lifting his eyes from the paper, he stared at Vahn.  “You want to do _this_ for his last trial?!”

                “Yes.  He…”  All traces of humor had fled from Vahn’s face as he paused.  “…He’s still struggling with his dragon.  I have two components for him passing this test.  The first is to awaken his dragon, and the second…he needs to learn the cost of the duty he’s about to swear himself to.”  Matthiaos continued to stare at the blue-armored dragoon.

                “You are aware that if he doesn’t come up to par, it’s going to be on you to put him down.”  He said bluntly.   Jeannoix hurried to his side, craning his neck to look at the paper.  His eyes widened.  “No second chances, no nothing.” 

                “I’m aware.  If he doesn’t pass, he dies.”  Vahn’s voice was grim.  Matthiaos stared at him for several minutes more, then sighed.  Bending over, he set the paper on the desk and signed it.

                “Make the arrangements, and I’ll get others to come witness.”  He said, straightening and holding out the paper.  Vahn nodded, accepting the sheet.  Snapping off a quick salute, he turned to leave.

                “Vahn.”  Stopping, the hyuran man turned to look back at Matthiaos.  “You can change your mind on this.” 

                “No.  I want it this way.”  With a sigh, Matthiaos nodded.

                “As you wish then.”  Beside him, Jeannoix was vibrating.  The moment the door closed behind the hyur, he spun on his partner.

                “Matthiaos, what the fuck?!”

                “Vahn’s squire, he has the right to test him how he chooses.”

                “But that-” Jeannoix spluttered.  “Matthiaos!”

                “Just start praying now the boy passes.”  Matthiaos was silent for several moments.  “In fact, pray _both_ of them survive.”


	37. An Aftermath

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> The aftermath of a Knight-Dragoon trial, as the Order gains a new member...

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> (Short and sweet chapter. Been a while since I've updated, trying to get back into this. Haven't had a lot of inspiration to write lately.)
> 
> \----------

                In the corner, the drachen-mail gleamed whenever a light was cast upon it.  The color of the Coerthas snows, it still looked as if it had just come straight from the smithy.  Matthiaos shot a glance at the armor, repressing a sigh.

                _At least he’ll get to wear it._   Which in the long run was what mattered, but now the attitude of the one wearing it…  Matthiaos’s eyes flicked from the armor to the form on the nearby bed.  Reinhardt was lying still, his skin covered with sweat.  He was heavily bandaged, and every so often blue aether shimmered around his head.

                “Vahn should be back in several moments, ser.”  Matthiaos turned his attention to the door as it opened.  Carrying a tray with a basin and towels, Riven Pendragon walked in, setting the tray down on the table next to Reinhardt’s bed.  Dipping a towel into the basin, she wrung it out of any excess moisture before starting to pat down the sleeping teenager.

                “It’s alright.  How has he been?”

                “Restless last night.  Woke up screaming once.”  Riven dipped the towel back into the basin.  “But his wounds are healing quickly, I imagine I can unwrap them tonight.” 

                “And your husband?” 

                “He’s…He was shaky.”  Riven exhaled, pausing.  “I admit I did not like his idea for testing Reinhardt either, but that is an area I have no authority in.”  She resumed patting down the younger Midlander again.  “I was just grateful the two of them came back.  Though from Reinhardt’s injuries…”  She looked at Matthiaos.  “Was it as bad as it appears?”   The dragoon-captain of House Fortemps was silent for several moments, his lips pressing together.

                “…If his dragon hadn’t awoken when it did, he would have died.”  He said.  It was far too blunt, but Riven Pendragon had proven over the past several moons that she was no wilting flower.  “He took too long to engage Vahn.  Now when it did wake up…”  He trailed off.  “He almost had Vahn in a few places, and that was when he wasn’t under control.  He managed to snap out of that, but just barely.”  Matthiaos shook his head. 

               “If Vahn hadn’t gone through what he did with his partner, I wouldn’t have approved this.”  The Cobalt Dragoon’s former partner had turned traitor to the Order and to Ishgard and had gone so far as to attack his former brothers and sisters.  The experience had scarred Vahn, and it had been the central component of Reinhardt’s final trial.  The newest member of the Knights Dragoon had needed to prove that no matter what, he would fight…even if his heart had been broken by one he had trusted.  It was that aspect which had made Matthiaos come to check on the boy.  Once Reinhardt was healed and ready for duty, there was a very good chance that his relationship with Vahn would sour, thanks to the events of his final trial. 

               “I can understand why he didn’t want to fight him.”  Matthiaos knew that Reinhardt viewed Vahn like a brother and vice-versa.  It wasn’t a good idea for teachers and students to become close—given the nature of the dragoon training.  “But…ah hells, this is going to be a cock-up.”

              “Then how does it not turn into more of one?”  Riven asked.  “These two men are very dear to me, and I know any fractured relationships will only damage them further and damage this family.”  Matthaios bit back a grin as he looked at the younger woman.

              “I pity anyone who tries to challenge House Pendragon in any way as long as you’re the Baroness.”  He said.  “Hell, I pity Vahn and Reinhardt if they ever start showing scales!”

              “I’ve already informed Vahn that if he ever did turn dragon, I will be the one leading the charge to beat him back to normal.  Reinhardt is going to get the exact same speech.”  Riven’s voice was cool and composed.  Matthiaos chuckled, and then sobered.

             “There’s not much that can be done.  When he wakes up I’ll speak to him, and I imagine one or two of the other veterans will want to do the same. If he’s got any issues with your husband, we’ll see if they can scrap it out—figure Reinhardt’s at least entitled to a few licks.”  The absolute, absolute last thing the Knights Dragoon needed was infighting of any kind.  Riven nodded.

             “I’m certain Reinhardt when he awakes, will be appreciative of your coming.”  She said softly. “And…if you could calm Vahn in any way as well, I would be in your debt.”  Matthiaos shook his head.

             “The fact that you’re a calm and steady presence for them both is enough for me, in fact for the entire Order.”  He said.  “We undervalue you dragoon-brides.  The ones that actually stick around and make it work, that is.”  Riven chuckled.

             “I love them.”  She said simply.  “And then I just go from there.”  The sound of a door opening made her head turn.  “I believe that’s Vahn now.”  Matthiaos nodded, offering a quick bow.

            “Baroness.”


	38. Prelude to the End (1)

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> Aymeric leaves with the Warrior of Light for Zenith, and Brucemont has a meeting with the High House Dragoon Captains.

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> (And we head into the final stretch for the story!)
> 
> \----------

                 “Aymeric’s gone?!”

                “He left early this morning with the Warrior of Light and the other Scion.”  Brucemont said.  He lifted his head, looking at the assembled High House Dragoon-Captains.  “He’s going to meet with Hraesvelgr and ask for his aid.  If we have the support of him and his brood…”  The blue-haired elezen paused.  “We just could have a fighting chance.”

                “How long will it take them?”  Therese asked.

                “If the weather holds, and they don’t run into any trouble—with the manacutters, they should make it to Zenith in three days if they push them.”  Matthiaos responded, eyes narrowed.  “Four and a half if they took chocobos.”

                “Manacutters.”   Brucemont confirmed.  “Has anything changed with the Horde?”

                “It’s been dead silent on the strings that border Western Coerthas and Dravania for the past fortnight.”  Kauchoix said. 

                “The same for the Central Highlands.”  Illeanne said.  “Not even Svara’s brood has stirred, and this is normally the time they try to start trouble.”

                “…They know Nidhogg’s preparing.”  Therese murmured.  “Getting ready for one final assault.”  Brucemont inhaled, leaning forward to put his elbows on the desk.  He closed his eyes.

                “What’s our status?”

                “Beauregard was the last for his drachen-mail and finishes off the first years.”  Matthiaos said. 

                “Nobody’s in the infirmary or reporting any illness.”  Kauchoix added.

                “We’re closed in as much as we can get with the strings.”  Ileanne reported.  “All we can do now is wait.”  Brucemont nodded, opening his eyes and looking up at the other dragoons. 

                “The First Sword will issue the mandatory evacuation order at midday.”  He said.  “There is a window of opportunity for those who have families under your command to get them out.  And at this point…”  Brucemont trailed off.  The words were in his throat, he wanted to get them out, but it was hard to do so…

                “First Lance?”  Matthaios asked.  Brucemont closed his eyes, bowing his head and swallowing.

                “…If they have family, if they have friends…if they have shelter outside of Coerthas…to go there.”  He said softly.  “If they want them to survive.”  In his thoughts Bastien keened softly, feeling Brucemont’s distress.  The idea of having to flee Coerthas entirely was traitorous, almost a sin.  

                “We will pass it on, First Lance.”  Brucemont nodded, waving a hand in dismissal.  The moment the door shut he swallowed back a sob, pressing the palms of his hands to his eyes.

              _Halone forgive me…_

             _ <It may not come to that.>_ Bastien whispered.  _< The Locks still could be safe.>_ Brucemont dragged in a breath.

                “I don’t know if I can believe that, Bastien.”  His voice was raspy.  “I don’t know if I can at all.”


End file.


   now, however, to his utter delight --- her head lies against his chest, arm slung about his neck in lazy fashion. nothing about either of them bespeaks formality, not any longer. not the warrior, who's always upheld her light and life with as much propriety as she's supposed to in favor of her image, and certainly not the knight. the knight, who's gift for  _just making people feel safe_ speaks long before he ever has the chance to, and who brings it upon himself to uphold that tradition with every ilm of effort in his being.  _especially_ here. 

           with her. 

  she's peaceful in sleep. more than she ever was in her waking hours, at least. haurchefant can admit that much. she's --- been through far too much to not be allowed to have this one moment. and, he hopes, many more. he rubs circles into her back, other arm resting over her waist to keep her flush against him. 

  felda's been so  _cold_ recently. and he can't blame her. coerthas is hardly forgiving to newcomers, he just ... wishes it was to her. that, at the very least, he can help with. he cannot heal her troubles, nor still her mind, but he can keep her warm. her duties cannot always wait, and neither can his. but, as is his nature, he'll always try. 

      even to a fault, it seems. 

  she stirs, and his gaze flickers back to her without a moment's hesitation. her eyes open a fraction. haurchefant is quick to shake his head, kissing her forehead and resting his chin atop her hairline. 

 ' go back to sleep, my friend. we yet have time to spare. it all can wait. ' 


End file.


 

she’d expect that aggression from a garlean, from a sworn citizen at mere mention of her deeds. but this? a disciple of zenos sent to hunt her down and more - she can’t say she isn’t unsettled. doesn’t want to admit it, more like. the wound the crown prince created had barely begun to heal; the ambassador ripped the stitches out as if they were mere strings. it bleeds freely now, those creeping thoughts of his last moments descending in full force upon her without hesitation. fighting it is easier said than done. she knows the names attached to her own carry no weight - the warrior of light is  _ nothing  _ like the crown prince’s prized beast. 

 

  she repeats it over and over in her head, a mantra she can’t afford to forget any time soon. consciously, she knows the chances of zenos having survived are less than none - but she can’t keep herself from doubting her own trust. the chance that he remains breathing still exists, no matter how she looks at it. 

 

    and if he yet lives, then she doubts even the scions could protect her. she can’t even protect herself. not from that monster. once he sinks in his teeth, he’s not like to ever let go. she stands at a precipice now - to fall wholly into believing his survival and begin to prepare, or to turn her head and try to preserve what peace she’s found. she likes neither option. ala mhigo is stable, but she still has business there that cannot be put aside just yet, though she anticipates she may be forced to. 

 

  a breath leaves her, lengthier than originally intended. she’s not often aware she’s too deep in her own mind before it’s far too late to detach painlessly. she rolls over, pulling the covers up to hide her shivers. 

 

   she’d long retired, earlier than the rest of the enclave, happy to put her head down for more than ten minutes. hien had joined her not long after, having had his own fill of politics for the day - at the very least, she cannot think of any other reason he would. but as of now, she knows it is to be closer to her than they could be in the hall. treaties of peace besides, they both have their own encumbering difficulties to face.  _ it is best we are together, at least _ . 

 

    she’s well aware neither of them have slept since the offer from the garleans was accepted. any attempt was just that - an effort, but lacking in success. kanan can’t blame him. but she can blame herself for not killing the bastard when she had the chance -

 

   ‘  kanan?  ‘ 

 

  her breath stills for a moment as she turns to look at him -  _ she must’ve been breathing too fast -  _ he’s propped up on an elbow, watching her intently. there’s a faraway look in his eyes too, as if he’s reminded of something long lost. she hopes he isn’t. kanan sits up, held up by one hand behind her as she looks at anything but him. she doesn’t know what to say.  _ maybe she doesn’t have to say anything _ . 

   ‘  if ‘tis the boy that troubles you, then rest assured, i am deeply concerned as well.  ‘  he comments quietly, almost a whisper. ‘ and, if not… then i would be glad to hear what stalls your spirit so, kanan. ‘  

 

  she can’t imagine he isn’t just as weighed down by this as she. his people are at stake - and those of garlemald’s, too. even the lightest of steps could bring the entire tower of cards down, and with it, doma’s freedom. her dignity. lives. the costs could and would be numerous and heavy. so when he moves to sit up too and begins to rub slow circles into the skin of her back, she leans into the touch, into him. 

 

  ‘  i wish it were that simple. ‘tis not… i do not care for the diplomat. ‘tis… the probability of z - the crown prince’s survival that concerns me most. ‘  terrifies, more like. keeps her awake at night, haunts the few dreams she’s able to have. pushes her into the shadows for wont of less attention. kanan can’t deny it - she’s tired of being known before she’s met. they know her, and yet, they do not  _ know  _ her. they cannot. 

 

   ‘ ah. ‘ is his only response at first, his cheek resting against her hair. ‘ you are afraid he will return, is that right? ‘  in any other circumstance, she’d expect the query to be criticising - yet it is not, and betrays his boundless capacity for genuine curiosity and caring. 

 

   ‘ i - ‘  kanan pauses, straining against her own vulnerability. he is right, and yet… not wholly. ‘ yes, however. i am - concerned about mine own fate, but ‘tis the fate of the others around me that worries me most. ‘  

 

    he says nothing. she doesn’t expect him to. 

 

  but she presses on regardless, unnerved. ‘  i know you can take care of yourself, just - ‘ his hand stops its motion and rests itself over her waist almost  _ protectively _ . kanan falls silent, unsure how or what to say. 

 

    hien breathes, pulling her back into the plush of the futon. she lies her head against his chest, ear near trained to hear the steady beating of his heart. it helps her breathe again, to tightly cling to her humanity just as he so openly shares his. 

 

    ' it may well be that he has survived, by some curse. be that as it may... ' he combs the hair from her cheek with a hand. '  yes, wildbloom, i can well take care of myself. but it would do you much good to remember that we fight  _together_ , ne'er apart. ' his reply is short, yet she does not feel offput - he has given her the short version, for once. '  promise me you will not forget. ' 

 

     kanan quietly hums in agreement. ' i would not. ''tis difficult to when i have you to remind me. ' she fits her waist in the crook of his arm, absentmindedly running her fingertips over the scarred tissue of his chest. he tightens his grip. 

 

     she hopes he never lets go. 


End file.


> Scintilla: (n) a tiny trace or spark of a specified feeling

You woke up in a cold sweat, clutching at your chest and breathing heavily. You tried to calm yourself, but the images of cold, dead bodies littered the inside of your mind. You didn't remember what came before or after the bodies; they were ever present, unfortunately, unlike the beginning and end of your morbid dream. You found yourself sticky with sweat, and opted to change into your only other pair of night clothes. You decided to take a walk down the corridor of the camp's few rooms to clear your mind. You couldn't remain composed, and your eyes drifted downwards to the sunny warmth that shone underneath a door at the end of the hall: Haurchefant's. You arrived at his door clad in a wool blanket and your night clothes; nights in Coerthas brought beautiful stars, but they also brought a fierce wind and cold. Though your knees were practically knocking together with all your shivering, you couldn’t be bothered to change, and his room was close enough anyhow. Three swift knocks later, and there Haurchefant stood, eyebrows raised as he inspected the late-night visitor.

“And what brings you to my quarters so late at night, my friend?” Haurchefant asked, and you were silently relieved that he was more composed than you expected him to be. You were just as relieved when he ushered you inside with a, “poor thing, you must be freezing.” 

Haurchefant’s room was, thankfully, warm and welcoming, and you took in the simple furnishings: a bed in the corner, an armchair, a table, and a simple tub behind a screen, all warmed by a rather large hearth. He entered, closed the door behind him, and rubbed your arms as if to speed up your defrosting process. 

“Is something amiss?” he said softly, and you assumed that he understood by the bags under your eyes and the way you seemed to shrink into yourself. You glanced down and shuffled your feet.

“I can’t sleep. Can I stay here?” you quietly said.

A small smile appeared on his face, and after briefly composing himself, he responded. 

“Of course. My chambers are always open to the Warrior of Light.”

You cringed. Warrior of Light, that’s what you were. Hardly a person, simply a tool. The way your face fell did not go unnoticed, and Haurchefant took your face in his calloused hands. 

“I’m sorry. Would you like to unload your burdens on me, my dear?” 

My dear. That was better, you preferred sweet pet names from Haurchefant, though your face flushed red as the fire dancing in the hearth. His question did not go unanswered, however, and you found yourself sitting at the edge of his bed, Haurchefant himself seated right next to you. 

You sighed. Where to start? Mayhaps you should start by saying you never wanted to be some grand hero; you never wanted to be the single reason so many of your comrades and friends had died untimely deaths. Maybe you should continue with the fact that being a grand hero gets stale quite fast, and end with explaining how you wanted to be vulnerable, feel human, be human. Your vision blurred into an oil painting of warm colors.

“Oh, please don’t cry,” Haurchefant whispered, rubbing your back soothingly, and it took you a beat to realize that you were, indeed, crying. Unfortunately, this realization made all the other emotions you had kept bottled up in some dark cavern in your mind come tumbling out. You tried to stop the tears, you really did, but you found yourself sobbing into your hands. 

“I’m sorry,” you said, and you weren’t quite sure what you were sorry for. Haurchefant shook his head and continued to rub your back. 

“There’s nothing you need apologize for.”

“I’m sorry,” you repeated, “I’m so sorry.” You kept on like that for a few moments, repeating the phrase like a prayer. 

Haurchefant finally pried your hands from your face and held them gently, running his fingers over your knuckles. 

“How long have you been holding in all this guilt, all this pain?” 

You couldn’t respond. He embraced you and touched his forehead to yours. 

“You may bring your worries to me. You may bring any torment, any suffering, and share it with me. There’s no reason you should let it fester inside you.”

Haurchefant’s voice was so gentle, and his words so kind. You brought your face to his shoulder, and he placed a hand on the back of your head. You thanked him, clutching onto him for dear life. He rocked you back and forth. Eventually the tears subsided. 

You peered up at him, head still on his shoulder, and he sighed in relief. 

“You scared me, my dear. I feared I would have to take you far away from all this Warrior of Light business; at least, until you recuperated,” Haurchefant joked, and you chuckled. 

“Haurchefant,” you started, throwing your arms around his shoulders, and a light blush dusted his cheeks and the tips of his ears, “Thank you.”

A soft smile crept onto his face, and he moved forward hesitantly, as if asking for permission to seal his lips with yours. You closed the distance; the kiss was short and sweet and genuine. Resting here with someone who meant so much to you--it was the most human you had felt in ages.


	2. Hearth and Home

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> The Warrior of Light and a certain grumpy dragoon are forced to seek refuge in an inn during a blizzard. Unfortunately the only room available has one bed. (Estinien/WoL fluff)

It had been a relatively simple request: Estinien and you were to clear an aevis infestation in the Coerthas Highlands. The two of you were the most trustworthy, Aymeric had reasoned, and this job, though seemingly simple, was of dire importance, it being on a major road.

As you both had surmised, it was a simple job, and the cleanup passed rather quickly. An oncoming blizzard, however, had forced Estinien and you to seek refuge in a nearby inn.

Struggling against the strong winds to push the wooden door behind you closed, your companion and you entered, the former opting to wait towards the entrance. You gave Estinien a passing glance as you strolled up to the woman attending the front, smoothing out the wrinkles in your clothes.

“Hello. I don’t suppose you would have any rooms available, would you?”

The woman glanced between you and the dragoon, a small smile on her face. It was slightly unnerving.

“Well, my dear, Halone smiles upon you today! I have exactly one room left. Will your husband and you be taking it?”

You sputtered.

“Excuse me?!” you all but yelled, a blush turning the entirety of your face crimson, and the woman winced.

“Oh, my sincerest apologies. You two haven’t gotten married yet, then?”

“Married? Yet?”

You looked at Estinien incredulously, but his armor kept you from discerning his expression. His arms were crossed against his chest, and you thought you could see a twitch of his lip, but it was clear he was leaving this awkward situation entirely up to you.

The woman beckoned you closer, her smile growing wider. You had half a mind to leave and sleep outside, with naught but the blizzard’s winds to rock you to sleep. You obliged the woman, however, quietly stepping forward until her thin lips were but a couple ilms away.

“As soon as you two walked into this inn, I could sense it,” she whispered, and your confusion must have showed starkly on your face, as she continued: “When you’ve lived as many summers as I’ve, you get a nose for what I like to call….lovers’ tension.”

You had quite a few questions running through your head, but you didn’t get to ask them. While you were engaged in this strange conversation, Estinien had come up behind you, placed a heavy hand on your back, and interrupted:

“The blizzard won’t be subsiding anytime soon. Just get the room. We can discuss the finer details at a later time.”

You wondered when “a later time” would be, but sighed and gathered the gil from the pouch around your waist, placing it on the wooden counter. The woman gave you a sly wink, explained how to get to the last available room, and placed a set of silver keys in your palm.

The room itself was a standard inn room, and while you prayed fervently that it would have two beds, it had but one moderately sized bed tucked in a corner. Estinien let out an angry huff, and you plopped yourself on the bed with another sigh.

“It’s a later time,” you said flatly, your eyes shifting to a now-helmetless Estinien. His hair was just as silky as it had always appeared, and you found yourself admiring his delicate white eyelashes, and the way they contrasted his deep-set steel blue eyes. He raised an eyebrow, and you quickly looked away as you felt a blush coming up.

Estinien sighed, and moved a piece of hair behind his ear. He grumbled something that you couldn’t quite make out.

“Sorry?”

“I said,” he started, crossing his arms and looking away (though a light blush tinted his ears), “If you have no qualms about it, we may share the bed.”

Unsure of how to accept without sounding too eager (to be fair, you were a bit eager; you had been pining after the dragoon for a while), you decided to go with: “If that’s okay with you, then I, too have no qualms about it.”

Estinien grunted and began the process of shedding his armor. You did the same, though you noticed the elezen turn his head as you began undressing. The kind gesture was meant, you assumed, to preserve your modesty.

You were dressed in little more than your smallclothes; as was your companion. His eyes seemed to trail down your form and up again, and you suddenly felt very self-conscious. You silently chided your foolishness: you could fell a primal, but heavens forbid the man you have been pining after see you in your nightclothes.

“Well,” Estinien started awkwardly, and you felt a smile tugging at your lips; you had never seen him behave in a way that wasn’t brash and confident. Awkward Estinien, you decided, was rather adorable.

You waited for him to continue, but he never did. Instead, a silence pierced only by the crackling of the hearth and the low hum of the blizzard outside left you both uncomfortable.

“After you,” Estinien finally muttered, motioning towards the bed, his face now the same shade of pink as his ears.

You slowly climbed under the thin sheets into the side next to the stone wall, which you instantly regretted: it was surprisingly cold to the touch. Because of the broadness of Estinien’s form, however, you found your back against the wall, and your chest against his arm. A sharp shiver ran up your spine.

It wasn’t supposed to be this way, you thought bitterly, feeling especially bitter at the fact that the bed was much, much smaller than it initially appeared. You tossed and turned, attempting to find some semblance of warmth, until Estinien’s sharp words caused you to pause.

“If you do not stop fidgeting--”

You let out a huff of air. You could respond to his biting remark, but you decided that you were far too tired to start an argument, and opted for muttering an apology instead.

You heard the rustling of sheets as the dragoon shifted and brought them up to his shoulder. You fought the urge to groan as you realized that the blankets were completely covering your face; only the crown of your head was visible. Though, admittedly, you were a bit warmer, it was difficult to breathe with sheets in your face.

You slowly wiggled up so that your face was at least above the covers, and realized that you were left with hardly any of the sheets. They were bundled up around Estinien. You tried your damndest to stay quiet as you coaxed the sheets over your shoulder.

“What are you doing.”

It was more of a statement than a question, and you suddenly felt heat pool in your cheeks. You clenched your fists and attempted to take a deep, calming breath, but Estinien yanked the sheets back towards him and something inside you snapped.

“Estinien,” you hissed, “My back is against this twelves forsaken wall that is colder than Shiva’s--,” you paused, trying to keep your anger in check, and said, “Give me the sheets.”

The dragoon’s back was facing you earlier, but apparently your outburst piqued his interest, because he was now directly in front of you, a ghost of a smile on his face. The room was lit only by the low flames of the room’s hearth and the silvery glow of moonlight filtering in through a small window, and you suddenly found yourself admiring the way the milky light bathed Estinien in an ethereal glow. Now certainly wasn’t the time for any of these feelings, but your cheeks grew hot.

Estinien seemed to relish in the fact that you stopped mid-argument to stare at him, and you practically saw the cogs working in his mind as his brows furrowed.

His muscled arms pulled you over and hoisted your frozen body upon his chest. The only legible thought you had was “Twelve take me.” Here you were, on top of the Azure Dragoon, who was holding you against him, in the same bed. Twelve take me, you thought again, grasping at the front of his shirt nervously.

“Better?” Estinien asked, pulling the covers over you both.

You gaped like a fish out of water and attempted to put together some kind of witty response or action or anything that would make you look less like a frail maiden in love and more like the Warrior of Light, but instead you blurted out, “Yes, you’re as warm as I imagined.”

TWELVE TAKE ME.

Your eyes widened. This was it. This was the one idiotic phrase that would get your privileges as Warrior of Light revoked. The gossip would spread quick around Eorzea: the famed Warrior of Light was fantasizing about a handsome Elezen dragoon. As gossip usually goes, the story would become twisted somewhere down the line, and would probably end up as “Warrior of Light pounces on dragoon: some say it was an assassination attempt.”

You felt a gentle hand smoothing hair away from your forehead, and your thoughts immediately came to a halt. You peered up to see said dragoon, a soft smile you had never seen on him gracing his face. He chuckled and rested his hands on your lower back.

“So you oft thought of me?”

With a blush you responded, “I did, you thick-headed fool. Obviously my rather blatant attempts at courting you failed.”

Estinien scoffed.

“I’m the thick-headed fool? I almost threw your body upon mine so you would not freeze during the night, and here you are, not understanding that I return your feelings.”

You did not know how to respond, so you didn’t.

Estinien sighed and pressed your head to his heart. It was rather calming, listening to his heartbeat like this. You hummed contently, and adjusted yourself so you were more comfortable. Your eyelids felt heavy, but you managed to mumble one more sentence before you surrendered yourself to sleep.

“Estinien, I love you.”

The dragoon’s expression softened. The finer details could be discussed at a later time.

“And I you.”

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> I redid this about 10 times and still couldn't get Estinien's character right ;; if you have any advice....please share orz

**Author's Note:**

> You can also request shorter things/prompts/etc at my tumblr: baymeric!  
> Thanks for reading ╰(*´︶`*)╯♡


End file.


  

Utterly defeated, powerless…

What could one hope to do, but despair against such overwhelming fury.

They could do naught but look on in horror as the elder primal laid waste to the realm, bathing the land in flames wrought from aeons of indignant rage.

The rain of fire bombarded the land without mercy, shaking the very foundation as Bahamut tore through the heavens, obliterating everything in its wake.

What remained of the armies on both sides had long since broken ranks. Bitter enemies, their conflict forgotten, all fled the battlefield together amidst the screams, explosions and chaos as hellfire rained down.

 

The air, heavy, awash with the chaotic torrent of aether bathing the once raging battlefield, invisible yet unmistakable.

Heat, ash and dust scorching their lungs and thundering explosions drowning out all but the wrathful roar that enveloped the heavens. The last remaining adventurers rallied around the Archon, Louisoix, who stood on an outcropping, overlooking the battlefield. A protective shell of light providing refuge from the rain of fire. The divine light of his staff serving as a beacon for the adventurers. The brave and loyal souls that yet stood with him amongst the chaos.

 

Powerless, they could only look to the Archon to enact the desperate plan that they had laid the groundwork for, not so long ago.

A divine radiance surrounded him. The manifestation of the prayers of countless souls beseeching the twelve for but one thing.

 

Salvation.

 

Bahamut, as if sensing the Archon’s power, descended from the heavens.

Its massive wings parting cloud and smoke, as it hovered above the warriors, letting loose a torrent of flares that shattered the protective barrier, laying them bare before the elder primal, barely able to hold their ground against the force of the explosion.

Yet even as the shield dissolved around them, a massive pillar of light rose above the Archon and from locations across Mor Dhona, and pierced Bahamut twelve times over.

She knew what he was doing. Committing a great and terrible sin to deliver the realm from utter annihilation.

Lousoix was well aware that the summoning of the twelve deities could, and most likely would, grievously wound Hydaelyn. And for a moment when a prison of light took shape around the Elder Primal, and Aetherial glyphs manifested in the sky, bleeding the aether from it, his resolve faltered.

In that moment, the Archon’s last resort had failed, as Bahamut broke free of its fetters, an uncontainable rage shattering the wards that would see him imprisoned once more. The force of its might flooring them all.

 

The Archon fell to his hands and knees, gasping and utterly drained. Feeling the earth between his fingers as he clenched his teeth in frustration upon realizing his grievous error.

Shocked and thoroughly disheartened, their hopes laid to ruin, yet still the adventurers stood up and rallied around the Archon as Bahamut summoned its full strength. Arcs of roaring flame twisted above the Elder Primal, coalescing into a growing sphere, blotting out the night sky and bathing the land in fiery light.

In his indecisiveness, he had failed them.

He had failed Eorzea.

His heart sank, an oppressive guilt pressing down on his shoulders.

The end was inevitable.

Lifting his head skyward to face the impending end, his eyes coming to rest on  the back of a lone adventurer as she stood tall before him, shielding him from the glare and heat of the growing inferno overhead. Her sword drawn in a final gesture of defiance against the inevitable.

 

This adventurer he had been fortunate enough to cross paths with when this all began.

She had been his selfless and unyielding sword, cutting him a path to this very point, and a rallying force for Eorzea and her fellow adventurers.

The loyalty and sacrifices of this adventurer and those under her command, now answered with failure.

 

As if sensing his eyes on her, she turned her head, casting him a warm, bittersweet smile over her shoulder, before turning back to the beast above her.

 

After all this, even now, to be able to smile like that. A smile that assured him she had made peace with what was about to happen. To assuage him of his guilt and to bid farewell to a dear friend.

 

She didn’t deserve this, none of them did. They shouldn’t have to pay for his failure. But he could do naught to save the realm, not even the few remaining souls that still gathered around him.

 

But one…maybe he had strength enough left to save her.

 

A small chance…under these conditions.

 

A forbidden spell...

 

Should she perish, swept up and torn asunder by the chaotic torrential currents of aether that smothered the land in Bahamut’s wake, it would be a far better fate than the one they now faced.

 

_‘Forgive me, my friend.  But this is all I can offer you. All I can offer Eorzea…’_

Her sense of touch was the first to go. Her weapon slipping from her grip, to fall at her feet. Bringing a hand to her face, her skin emitting an increasingly bright atherial glow, she knew not what was happening, but knew immediately who was responsible.

She spun around to face the archon, a silent apology and a pained smile on his lips.

 

_She was being saved._

_No!_ she shouted, her hand outstretched to her old friend. But her voice was gone and her legs were anchored in place.

 

_‘Louisoix!’_

And with a wave of his hand, her world was enveloped in blinding light.

 

 

This light however, was quickly consumed by darkness.

 

Memories, faces, joy, sorrow, a culmination of her every experience flowing through her before being smothered and consumed by a raging sea of infinite nothingness.

Try as she might to hold on to these precious things, her consciousness was rapidly fading. She was drowning, her very being, dismantled piece by piece with every passing moment. Panic was all she knew in those moments as she fought to hold on to her very soul.

 

Then, amidst the sea of darkness, shone a single point of light. She tried to reach out to it, but her body was gone.

 

Panic replaced by overwhelming despair and sadness.

 _‘Help…’_ she pleaded.

It was the only conscious thought she could still muster.

_‘Help…’_

And just as it threatened to consume the last vestiges of her mind and soul, the darkness was violently thrown apart. Torn asunder by the rapidly expanding light.

Plucked from the ravenous sea of darkness and wrapped in the embrace of a warm, protective light. As her consciousness finally faded, a voice echoed through her…

 

_…Sleep._

* * *

 

 

 

 

 

 

_Hear…_

A distant voice called to her.

_Think…_

The veil of unconsciousness being slowly lifted from her mind.

 

_Feel…_

Her first breath filling her lungs. She could barely move, couldn’t open her eyes. Even as her mind awoke, she could only passively listen.

 

The sounds of countless voices, chaotic and unintelligible, lingered at the edges of her hearing.

 

_Teach…_

Images filled her mind, thought, emotion, words.

 

 

_Hope…_

The maternal voice continued to echo throughout her very being.

Her fingers twitched, as feeling returned to her body. A warmth washing over her. Lulling her. And keeping her at the brink of sleep.

 

_Hope…_

 

_Wish…_

Her eyes stung, wetness on her cheeks, as she listened, as she learned…as she awoke.

_Tell…_

_Speak…_

_Speak…_

_Speak…_

The words repeated for a moment before she understood the command.

 

“Who are you…?”

 

“Where am I…?”

 

Her thoughts echoed in her mind.

 

Moments of silence lingered before the voice spoke once more. A tinge of satisfaction…elation maybe?

 

_Beloved daughter._

 

_It is time._

“Time?”

 

“I don’t understand…”

 

She could feel tendrils of warmth withdrawing from her skin, the brightness behind her closed eyelids dimming.

 

“Wait!”

 

_Open your eyes._

 

* * *

 

Cold air filled her lungs, sending her into a coughing fit.

Sounds of life filled the air.

Grass tickled her skin and dried leaves crunched between her fingers.

Her eyes slowly fluttered open. The hands in front her face were her own. She stared at them as if seeing them for the first time, flexing her fingers through the leaves and short grass.

She closed her eyes, running a mental check on her body, fingers, toes, all working. She wasn’t in any pain, but her body felt heavy.

 

 _‘Where am I?’ ,_ she opened her eyes, her gaze drifting skyward to come face to face with…

 

“Kupo?”

 

“Moogle…”, she muttered, unfazed by the furry creature inches from her face.

 

“You’re alive!”

“That’s a relief!” , “I had feared the worst when we found you!”

 

“D o n ’t   g e t   s o   c l o s e   t o   h e r,  k u p o,   s h e   m i g h t   e a t   y o u!” , another voice warned.

 

She looked behind the first moogle in her personal space to see even more of the furry creatures floating beneath the think canopy of trees overhead.

 

“Don’t be silly! Humans don’t eat moogles! Kupo”, he shouted to his companions.

 

“You don’t eat moogles do you?”, he turned to her once more, quirking his head to the side.

 

“I don’t think so”, she whispered, supressing another cough. Her throat felt dry.

 

“Oi stop gawking and bring some water!”, he called up into the trees.

 

“I must apologise for my fellow moogles, they haven’t had much contact with humans, especially way out here”.

 

“Here?”, “Where am I?”

 

“Why, the Twelveswood of course, though it’s extremely rare for humans to wander this far into the forest”.

 

“How did you get here,kupo?”

 

“I…”, she searched her memory. “I can’t…”

“I can’t remember…”, her brow furrowed in frustration.

 

“Kupo?”, “Memory loss is it?”

“Maybe you hit your head”

“Do you remember your name?”

 

“Lavian”, she answered immediately, surprising herself with how easily that bit of information came to her.

 

“Aha!”, “If you can remember your name, I’m sure it’ll all come back to you eventually!”

 

“I’m Kuplo Kopp by the way, and uh, that’s Mopl…..”

“A h !   d o n ’t   g i v e   i t   m y   n a m e !”

 

“What can she possibly do with your name! Kupo!”, an annoyed Kuplo Kopp shouted up at the trees.

 

Her memory loss should probably worry her more than it did, but she felt surprisingly calm.

 

In any case, lying on the forest floor any longer would accomplish nothing. Her body felt heavy as she pushed herself up to a sitting position.

 

“Ah! Wait! Wait! Should you be moving?”, the flustered moogle flitted around her, frantically waving his arms.

 

“I’m fine, I don’t think I’m hurt”, she assured him as she tried to stand, only to stagger back.

 

“Whoa! Kupopo!”

 

The world around her swam wildly for a moment, toppling her backwards, but the moogle managed to get behind her, pushing against her back with all its might, its tiny wings flapping vigorously until she stood upright.

 

“Th..thanks”, she tried to maintain her balance on shaky legs.

 

“I told you! Kupo!”, Kuplo Kopp chastised her while steadying her by the shoulder.

 

“D o n ’t   t o u c h   I t !   A r e   y o u  c r a z y,   k u p o !”

 

“What are you on about now?!”

 

“I t’s   o b v I o u s l y   s i c k,   l o o k !   i t s   m i s s i n g   i t s   f u r !”,  “y o u   m i g h t   c a t c h   s o m e t h i n g !”

 

“Idiot!”, Kuplo Kopp shouted. “Humans don’t have fur! , she’s just naked!”

 

“Huh?”, she blinked, looking herself over, even as she struggled to keep her balance.

 

“Where are my clothes?”, and why was she just now noticing this?

 

“Kupo?, you were like this when we found you”, “Maybe you went swimming and hit your head”, “There are a few rivers and springs around the forest”.

 

“I see”, her physical state, much like her mental state, worrying her much less than she thought it should.

 

“I think…I think I can walk”, she gently brushed him off her shoulder, taking a few unsteady steps forward, before she found her legs. Dried leaves crunching beneath her feet while the moogle hovered around the whole time, should she fall over again.

 

Apparently they were somewhere in the mountains. Before her, or rather below her, the forest stretched across the horizon as far as she could see. Tiny patches of firelight peaked through the trees here and there. Likely villages and outposts, she reasoned.

 

“Finally!”, she heard Kuplo exclaim, and she turned to face him just as another moogle darted off into the trees. “Here you go”, he offered her the small saucer of water.

“Thank you”, she gratefully accepted. The water, sweet and almost foreign to her. Like everything, the wind on her skin, the sound of chirping crickets and rustling leaves, every breath she took, every sight she beheld. It all felt, off, intriguing…new.

 

“Gridania…there’s a city called Gridania”, “If I’m in the Twelveswood, someone there might know who I am”

 

_‘Good, at least I haven’t lost all memory.’_

 

“I need to get there…do you know where it is?”, she asked as she handed him the saucer

“Of course I know where it is! Kupo!”

“It’s like my home away from home”

“But you’re not gonna make it there, especially walking in the state you’re in”

The moogle snapped his fingers, “Oi! Get down here!”

In response, a tattered cloth sheet fluttered down from the trees, which he promptly caught. “Cowards!”

“Here, kupo”, “put this on, you’re like to attract unwanted attention, strolling up to a human village in the state you’re in”.

“I see...you have a point”, she nodded.

“I can take you to the nearest village, and from there we can get you a chocobo carriage to Gridania”

“Thank you, Kuplo Kopp, I really appreciate this”, she bowed her head as she finished wrapping the sheet around her body.

“Don’t mention it, kupo!”, he gave her a thumbs up.

“You seem like a nice lady, and I pride myself on being a good judge of humans”.

“Besides, not many humans can see us, unless we want to be seen of course, that alone means something, kupo”.

“Are you sure you don’t need to rest a while longer?”.

She shook her head, “No, I can make it”.

“Lead the way”.


End file.


> Inspired by Conrad's Nostromo.

It was a frequent joke amongst the gathered adventurers that the proprietors of the local businesses, the carpenters, the botanists, those who sat in the shaded stalls in the marketplace, and even those who took up the sword in protection of the wandering merchants who passed from settlement to settlement with vials of this and packages of dried that, were all lacking in imagination. A real person, someone with strength and conviction, would take the new land for what it was worth and make off rich and respected. But strength and conviction had not been enough, and the best and brightest had fled from the Cartenau Flats with their tails between their legs, their Gods having lacked the same strength that drove mortal men to fight on that dusty plain. The brave had perished and the remainder lived now in the uneasy stasis of having gone through an apocalypse that only failed for seemingly arbitrary reasons, the great wyrm simply vanishing, taking Dalamud and the combined forces of the Grand Companies, the greatest raised army that Eorzea had ever fielded, with it. After the dust had settled and the coastal and inland townspeople had taken their first steps into the fire drenched night, human movement had resumed. Eorzea would rebound. The corpses would be moved to marked graves and new trade routes would be plotted among the aetheric fragments. Flash frozen Ishgardians would simply produce heavier coats. The Empire would move back and erect new Castrums. Monetarists would continue to plot even as the Ala Mhigan refugees, old in their suffering, waited in the caves under this, the shadow of their second tragedy. In large and small ways life would continue. It was a perverse existence in some ways, as it made the death that much more tragic and pointless, but it was one whose grim normalcy seemed to hang on the end of a sword. The desperation of the scavengers gave way to bravado when common modes of commerce and travel resumed and thus the adventuring class was born.

The windows of the Carline Canopy hovered on the very edge of transparency and in fact the building was lit primarily by lanterns, which shone brightly, along with the errant flame, erupted either by magical aptitude or by the simple mechanism of a flint and served often as the prelude to smoking. It was in one such prelude that Ribiero, an axe wielder of the widely known seafaring Roegadyn but who had lived on and off in the forests since the Calamity, surveyed the room from his stout wooden stool. It was a standard collection of adults with the smooth unscarred complexions of teenagers, breath caught short and in wanting at the sight of a man taller than Miounne, who herself was much taller than the majority of the Hyur who had been used to the praise of that most simple and unwarranted of virtues, height. There was a certain virulent energy in the room. The swords were no longer held with consternation at their weight or price but wonder as to how it would look cleaving through the flesh of some rough monster sitting on a pile of gil in a hole somewhere, unearthed now for the crafted boots of new wayfarers. The mind of the new adventurer, thought Ribiero, could not think of the reality of the blood spraying out from the wounded monster or the sharpened sword nonetheless getting stuck in the flesh, caught by a tangle of muscle and the sucking air pressure, the tired and watery eyes of some creature looking up at them with motions approaching fear. They were fine folk and that aside had convictions about how the world now worked. The end times had not come despite the signs and now the apocalyptic happening were broken up and scattered along the countryside. They would believe anything glorious, he decided, even the truth.

Ribiero was a man at town with the people who gathered at the Canopy and in turn was out of sorts with the seafaring folk to whom he ostensibly belonged. In start and by order of material reality, the forests of Gridania, under the impassive yet ever present hands of the elementals, were not the seas of the Thalassocracy and the plants bit more than the imperials, who waited in their wall to the east. There was nothing grand that distinguished him from his fellows. Certainly he was as large and as strong as was to be expected and his axe split open many a skull. He was of a moral character, not great but at least consistent, vowing not to harm women or children in that passive way that principled men often chose to make up for their sword arm. No, he was a man who enjoyed word too much for the taciturn merchants, serious at their plight of being another set of holds to plunder for the Garlean ships, and who boasted too much for the pirates. Indeed, it was at a knife's point he was driven from the taverns for talking of a raid on his fellow pirates, now citizens, that was seen as a matter of course in the olden days before the Admiral, the whole affair with the moon, and even the city proper, but was now in effect high treason. He went along the coast, through the verdant jungle, and hitched a ride on the cart of a diremite web merchant, bound as it were to travel back to the Deepcroft outside of Gridania. He had a distinguished look about him, his silver hair and beard radiating experience and sharpness that wasn't wholly unearned. So too were the knicks on his axe, an impressive piece made for two hands, that towered above the diminutive polearms and conjuring rods, but paled in comparison to the truly fearsome weapons wielded by the real warriors, axes of such weight and magnitude that Ribiero had thought, after seeing them outside the hot spring on the old Nymian border, was some sort of tool for twisting the metal beams used for railroads. He had experience, yes, and was a man whose forays with the pirates in their carved sea caves, plundered weapons crashing against the rough stone hewn out by the Sahagin in a further along umbral age, would later be eclipsed by the retroactive recognition of the Sastasha excursion and its erstwhile members. Still, he loved the word and the word loved him, and the failed but jolly pirate had yet become a heroic figure amongst the inn dwellers.

Ribiero, who had in the private sanctuary of the inn room practiced often the motion of bringing a pipe to his lips did so then with the gracefulness  
of an actor going on stage for the first time, the eager looks of the crowd drowning out any residual doubt. The afternoon light flared up through the glass, shining in lines and spots in the cloud of acrid smoke and the persons gathered shifted uncomfortably in their purchased vestments, waiting for Ribiero to finish smoking and speak. "I see that there are some who still wish to face the world," he said, exhaling white smoke, the crowd tight in their throats at this remark, every man looking with surety and every woman with the quiet dignity of expectation. The much maligned lay people, to their credit, simply milled about with their cards or drink or work, content not to face the new world's dawn if it was content not to face them. This was fine to the Roegadyn man, who pounded his chest, pushing the uninterested out of the pace of his speech. "To pick up a sword is bravery!" he shouted, "A cane, a spear, an axe! The steel arm of the warrior can be forged from anyone, it only requires courage!" Sliding the ax out, he waved it over the lantern light, a red spot glowing under the metal. He raised it, the reflection widening, a small hued sphere of light forming in the speckled reflection. "Dalamud... the fall of the moon was tragic. Who amongst us cannot say we lost someone to that tempestuous moon?" At this, everyone nodded stoically. "But we are still here! And in that ash, monsters crawl out, and the realm is confronted at all sides by the damage that awful violence had visited on us. Where are the heroes," looking around the room slowly, "who would protect this fair place and in turn find themselves sitting on the glory of victory for the weak?" In the silence, despite being enraptured by the speech, they were not his, not wholly, but belonged to the same starless and dark sky that hung over the failed first and second prisons of the Wyrm, which was there despite everything and after everything. They were lost in its breadth, which stretched before and after, enveloping that misery that had otherwise defined them. To jump in and be the master of that pain, it was intoxicating. Ribiero knew that the crowds that gathered around him did not cheer for him but for the portrait of themselves as champion and it was just as well, for the older Roegadyn no longer had the appetite necessary to consume as large a meal as the peace of the realm. Without adventurers there would simply be guards and fortified routes, encampments, and the tangled bureaucracy of the Grand Companies and their institutional patrons would eventually be overwhelmed when the Garleans stepped out again into the light. This he believed with a real conviction. The future of Eorzea was to be framed by slaughter on both ends, the terrible weight of that moonless night and all that came after.


End file.


A muffled scream of pain broke the suffocating silence, the men startled by it but even more when a frantic Tataru ran down the hall then back with towels. The Lalafell’s teary-eyed face worried the men, especially Count Fortemps, Haurchefant, and Alphinaud. Another scream reached their ears and then another after another until there was silence. They all hated the silence for they wanted news of their friend and her child, news that Haurchefant was about to acquire himself when the chirurgeon, followed by the midwife, walked into the room. 

“Is she alright?” Haurchefant immediately inquired, his tremendous worry obvious to even a blind man. 

“Yes,” the midwife answered, the men sighing in relief and smiling but that ceased when she hesitantly continued, “and no. My apologies, m’ lord, but there were complications.”

“Complications?” Alphinaud questioned, “what happened?!”

“The child,” she began, wiping the sweat off her brow, “the cord was wrapped around his neck. He did not survive.”

Without another word Haurchefant and Alphinaud rushed to the room, leaving Ser Aymeric, Count Fortemps and his two other sons to speak with the hired healer and midwife. Alphinaud was right behind the taller elezen, but when he reached the threshold of the room he froze. Past Haurchefant he saw his friend in her bed and sobbing uncontrollably whilst she cradled her dead newborn in her arms. Tataru wiped her tears away as she offered what little comfort she could, not seeing the two males who made their way inside. 

Haurchefant was the first to speak, “My. . . friend, I am so sorry.” His voice cracked, the knight heartbroken from seeing the woman he fancied so emotionally wrecked and unable to make things right. 

A whisper passed the weeping woman’s lips, a whisper that grew louder the more it was repeated. “LEAVE,” she cried, her voice hoarse, “please, I wish to be alone.” Never had she screamed and begged to anyone, but the circumstances pushed her to do so. 

“You both heard her, she wants to be alone,” Tataru spoke up before either male could protest and soon ushered them both away, closing the door behind her. The Lalafell did not go far, opting to stay right outside the door in case she was needed. 

Within the room where she had spent hours in labor, the Warrior of Light continued to weep. She caressed her still baby, begging for an answer from Hydealyn on why she had to lose her first child before he even had the chance to live. Bloodshot eyes glanced over him, seeing his dark skin and blonde hair only to cry out harder. He looked like the Crystal Brave who sired him, a man who she had loved and given herself fully to, a man she hated yet could not disperse the love that she still held for him.

“Why,” she wept, “why Ilberd, why?”


End file.


> （写在前面：FF14的即兴同人作品，R18内容有，鲁加族x傲龙族，人物原型来自两个朋友的捏人。文名来自歌单里的一首歌。文章中涉及的另一首歌的名字是Pi's Lullaby,by Mychael Danna,我找到的版本是OST里的泰米尔语版，中文翻译是我自己照着英文版本翻译的。至于故事为什么进展这么快，我只想写个床戏啊我已经觉得铺垫太多了好吗！我不想又写个几万字刹不住车啊！）

艳阳高照。  
光之战士们口中传诵的沙之都——乌尔达哈，今天也是繁忙异常。来来回回的商人们吆喝着，初出茅庐的冒险者们莽撞地闯过一道道门，依旧迷失，到处问路。这样的冒险者里也包括一个不怎么常见，有着带刺儿尾巴的傲龙族。尽管她已经穿了有兜帽的朴素长袍，然而傲龙族那极具特色的尖角和尾巴却是怎么也藏不住，这让她总觉得人们的目光有点刺刺的。站在大水晶的门口，她十分想找个人来问问路。在她眼前，晃悠过如同笔杆一般高挑纤细的精灵族……可恶太高了，讲话有困难。于是她思索了一下，开始四处寻觅起看上去松松软软的拉拉菲尔族。  
——直到她转过脸来撞上了一堵墙。  
“哦呀。”  
“墙”说话了。傲龙族女孩子揉了揉发疼的鼻尖，眼睛里甚至带了点泪光。她很努力地抬头看去，只有一束刺目的阳光透过那“墙”的火红头发照射过来。  
“对不起，撞疼你了吗？”  
“墙”自顾自地蹲下来，像安慰小孩子一样的隔着兜帽揉了揉傲龙族女孩的头。  
“不要揉我的头！”  
啪得一下打开那堵“墙”的手，龙女摘下了她的兜帽，露出一头银白色的长发和一双异色眼眸。  
“我叫图拉奇娜！你这个无礼的家伙！”  
也多亏对方知趣地蹲下来，图拉奇娜这才看清楚对方原来不是墙或者土元素那种东西，而是一个身材高大的红发鲁加女人，正一脸惊愕地看着突然暴怒的她。尽管五官仿佛被刀子削过一般锋利，看上去却一点也不凶，相反眉宇间正带着一种极其温柔的笑意说道：  
“那真是失礼了，图拉奇娜小姐。”  
她似乎要站起来离开，图拉奇娜也不知道脑子里哪根筋不对了，突然拽了一下对方的衣服，说道：  
“等一下！……那个，咒、咒术师协会……”  
对方被她轻轻巧巧拽了一下似乎有些晃，索性就单膝跪了下来，对着这位龙女小姐露出了笑容：  
“你迷路了吗？”  
“没有！”  
“那我……”  
“不许走！”  
“……”  
红发的鲁加族强忍着想要爆发出来的笑意，看着对方憋得有点发红的脸颊，心头涌起一种想要恶作剧一般的情绪，于是不等图拉奇娜反应过来，直接将她抱起放在了肩头。  
“既然没有迷路的话，那就请你在这里帮我指路了。”  
“啊啊啊————”  
鲁加这突如其来的动作着实吓坏了图拉奇娜，出于本能的抬手抱住了什么东西，却发现自己把鲁加的脑袋抱进了胸口。  
“……你这样我是看不见路的，图拉奇娜小姐……”  
“啊啊啊啊啊啊啊啊啊啊啊啊——”

在鲁加艰苦卓绝得把龙女送到咒术师协会，额角明显被人揍到发红了。图拉奇娜气呼呼地头也不回的冲进协会，再也不想理那个性骚扰鲁加的时候，那把听上去低沉又有磁性的声音对着她的背影喊道：  
“我叫做拉尔，再会啦。”

而她没有回答。  
她才不想记住这个鲁加叫什么呢。

“为什么！你！会！在！这里！啊！——”  
三天后。  
图拉奇娜嘟着嘴抱着想炖了那几个拉拉菲尔的心情走到了跨天桥去做任务。可是还没等她找到所谓的黑暗裂隙，就看到一堵熟悉的墙正坐在那里心情很好的烤肉。  
她的心情更不好了。相反，那个叫做拉尔的鲁加女看到她却很开心的招招手：  
“又见面啦，图拉奇娜小姐。要不要一起来吃烤肉？我今天打到了优质的山羊腿肉哦？”  
“我——”  
胃里的咕噜声阻止了她。  
毕竟我是没有练生产职业的纯战斗职业嘛。我才没有这个鲁加那么闲！  
图拉奇娜气哼哼地坐下吃烤肉的时候心里这样安慰自己。  
“你来做任务吗？”  
“（咀嚼咀嚼）似啊。”  
拉尔往火堆里添了点柴，左手托着腮帮子看已经吃了一脸油的龙女。烤羊腿真是超美味，图拉奇娜嘴上不说，尾巴却都已经晃了起来，全然不知道已经被鲁加不动声色地看了个满眼。  
“你看，天色已经这么晚了，不如明天再做任务吧？如果需要帮忙的话，我正好也没什么事做。”  
图拉奇娜用手背擦了擦嘴，瞥了一眼被鲁加背在背后那把看起来就超贵超高级的弓，虽然穿得朴素了些，但是武器是不会骗人的，有点不情愿，但是也没明确反对。拉尔看她那副愤愤不平的样子又觉得有点好笑，从怀里掏出一块绸制的手帕，也不等她反应，自顾自地坐到了图拉奇娜的身边，抬手给她擦嘴，擦完嘴又给她擦手。  
被鲁加的举动差点搞懵了的龙女这才反应过来，又是一巴掌打开鲁加的大手：  
“你不要把我当小孩子啊！不吃了！”  
说完她把手里还没吃完的羊腿塞进鲁加手里，索性一把扯过那个手帕自己擦了起来。  
手帕上有一股烧烤都掩盖不住的海洋清香。  
还挺好闻。  
不对！！！  
拉尔看着个子小小的龙女脸上光速变换着的表情还是觉得好好笑。图拉奇娜瞪了她满是笑意的脸一眼，跑到旁边的水桶，用手帕沾了清水好好清理了起来。鲁加看着她纤细的腰腿，忍不住感叹：  
“我以前只在船上见过几个傲龙族的男人，我还以为你们一族和我们一样，无论男女都很高大呢。”  
“你这是偏见。”  
图拉奇娜洗着脸，一边发出不屑的声音。  
“不要看我们个子矮，我们可是很凶的。”  
拉尔刚想喝水，直接呛了半杯在喉咙里，咳到差点断气。  
“呛死你。”  
龙女漂亮的异色瞳翻了个大大的白眼。

夜已经深沉了，星空正无比璀璨。图拉奇娜铺开自己随身携带的两层毛皮毯子，一层铺在平坦地上，挨着火堆，然后舒舒服服地窝了进去，盖好另一层。她翻滚了一下，突然从毯子露出半个脸，瞪着对面的鲁加：  
“我警告你，不许趁着半夜对我行不轨之事！”  
拉尔非常庆幸自己刚才压下了想喝水的念头。  
“我的大小姐，野外是不能两个人一起都睡熟的。你睡吧，我来放哨就好。”  
“谁是你的大小姐啊！”  
偏头躲过了一块小石头，拉尔苦笑着摇摇头：  
“你说的没错，你们傲龙族的女孩子真的很凶。”  
沉默突然笼罩了两个人。拉尔以为她睡着了，正要站起身，突然听到她说：  
“……我睡不着。”  
“第一次在野外过夜吗？”  
“……”  
“不要害怕。”  
拉尔笑了起来。图拉奇娜突然觉得自己并不讨厌她的笑声。怎么说呢，从那厚实的胸腔里传来的共鸣总是让人觉得有点温暖，但她只是哼了一声，翻过身，不去理会她。没过一会儿，里拉琴那轻柔温婉地声音从她背后传来，拉尔用她低沉的嗓音温和地哼起了歌：  
“Kanne....（宝贝，）  
Kanmaniye....（我最爱的宝贝...）  
Kann urangayo kanne...（快快睡吧，我的小可爱）  
Mayilo togai mayilo... （难道你是孔雀吗，美羽开屏）  
Kuyilo koovum kuyilo... （难道你是杜鹃吗，鸣叫动听，）  
Nilavo nilavin oliyo... （难道你是月亮吗，皎洁闪耀，）  
Imayo imayin kanavo... （慢慢闭眼，是否有美梦在眼皮下跳动……） ” 

哼，什么嘛，鲁加族和吟游诗人的形象一点都不般配。  
这是图拉奇娜睡着以前脑海中唯一闪过的话。

睡梦中的图拉奇娜梦见了鞭炮和那些该死的地灵族。  
“噼噼啪啪的吵死人了！……”  
她眼睛还没睁开，嘴里已经嘟囔着在抱怨了。不知道为什么有点冷，她往温暖的地方缩了缩，鼻端有着好闻又清爽的海洋香气。  
……等等。  
她睁开眼睛，果不然看到那堵墙就大大咧咧的躺在自己旁边，冲自己眨眼。而她不但在鲁加的臂弯里，刚才还在蹭、蹭……  
“啊啊啊啊啊啊啊啊啊啊啊啊啊啊————”

拉尔好容易捂住了暴怒着挥舞魔杖想要在自己脑袋上念个爆炎的龙女的嘴，努力向她解释就在她刚睡着不久天上突然开始下雨所以她必须把她抱进这个狭窄的山洞两个人一起避雨，而她半夜踹毯子太严重所以自己为了让她睡好才不得已抱着她睡之类的话。  
“你以为我这样就会相信你啊！——”  
她不相信也没办法，自己完全在拉尔的控制之下，气得她露出自己的尖牙竖着尾巴一口咬上虽然看起来硬硬的鲁加肩膀。  
“哎呦。”  
突然被袭击的拉尔条件反射般的伸手按住了龙女，只觉得手触之处温热柔软，偶尔还有坚硬的鳞片刮过自己的手指。而怀里的图拉奇娜却突然安静下来。  
“……哎？”  
如果安静指的是突然一言不发双颊通红的瘫软在自己怀里，手还揪着自己的外衣。  
“你、你……哈……”  
“哎？？？”  
“别…………别、哈……别摸我……屁股！”  
傲龙族的尾巴和屁股都非常敏感。  
敏感到摸一摸就会浑身无力。  
而拉尔今天才知道。  
“啊对不起……”  
她挪开手，突然气氛尴尬又燥热了起来。  
图拉奇娜双腿发软，本来就被鲁加按在怀里不能动，这时又被捏了屁股和尾巴，真是又羞又怒，想发泄又不知道怎么办，一双眼睛狠狠地瞪着鲁加。  
“我，呃……”  
外面的雨还是很大，可拉尔觉得再这样抱着人家也是不对的。于是叹了口气，放开了图拉奇娜，又替她裹好被子，说道：  
“我还是出去吧。”  
不等图拉奇娜回话，高大的鲁加族就站起身走到了外面的暴雨之中。尽管雨幕之中什么都看不到，但是那头耀眼的红发即便瞬间被打湿了，也好像火焰一样明显。图拉奇娜突然觉得自己是不是太没礼貌了——人家好心好意请你吃饭替你站岗还怕你淋湿了把你抱到山洞……  
“喂……”  
雨声毕竟太大，拉尔那个高度想听到也是有点困难。  
“喂！！！！”  
“啊？”  
鲁加回过头，已经被淋成了一个落汤鸡的模样。图拉奇娜看着更是于心不忍：  
“你进来吧，外面雨太大了。”  
看到她这副乖巧的模样拉尔反而觉得有点不好意思，而暴雨的确打得她脸颊有点痛，于是又重新钻进了山洞，和龙女保持了一点距离，靠着洞壁坐了下来。图拉奇娜有点别扭地说：  
“你怕不是傻的吧。”  
说完也不理那个鲁加，把自己盖着的这个毛毯披到了她的肩头，看着自己能当被子盖的毛毯最多只能给鲁加当个披肩，她又愤愤然起来。用脚尖划拉了一些地上的粗树枝，用魔杖念了一句什么，一个小但是温暖的火堆就好了。  
“咒术师果然很方便啊。”  
拉尔烤着火，嘿嘿一笑。反而让图拉奇娜红了脸。  
“对、对不起……”  
“什么？”  
声音像蚊子一样的龙女拒绝再说第二次，又白了鲁加一眼。  
“我说对不起，白痴。”  
“我也有名字的好不好，叫我拉尔。”  
“不叫！”  
看着她那副傲娇的样子，拉尔突然有种说不明白的冲动。她一把将图拉奇娜拽到了自己腿上，用手臂圈住她，语带威胁：  
“我要捏你屁股了哦——”  
“你！——”  
本来是抱着恶作剧一样的心情伸手探到龙女的长袍下面，却被她穿衣服的“单薄”程度惊讶到了。滑嫩的大腿被鲁加有点粗糙的手茧划过，图拉奇娜再想反抗却也是只能娇喘一声，瘫在拉尔还有着湿冷的怀里。  
“你！——你这混蛋！——”  
“啊，我的衣服果然都湿了。这样会着凉的。”  
拉尔头一次露出了坏笑，她一只手按住图拉齐娜的腰际，一手三下两下就脱掉了湿掉的外衣。鲁加女性线条优雅的肌肉线条让瘦弱的龙女吞咽了一下，深深忧虑起两个人的力量差距来。  
“你的衣服也湿了，脱了吧。”  
那声音喑哑起来，带着一种诱人的迷惑。图拉奇娜有点惊恐地摇头，对方那双稳健的手却已经顺着她的腰际摸了上来。  
“会着凉的。”  
她重复地说着无意义的话，轻巧地解开了龙女的长袍，露出了里面可爱的乳白色内衣。龙女的双腿被迫分开，跨骑在鲁加的腰上。羞耻感让图拉奇娜一句话也说不上来，连耳朵都憋红了，刚想用拳头锤上鲁加的肩，拉尔突然捏住了她的两条腿，把她又往上挪了一点。大腿内侧突然摩擦到拉尔的腹肌，龙女嘤咛一声挽住了鲁加的脖颈。  
“你、你……”  
呼吸间的燥热让她一句话也说不出来。而拉尔像是得到了什么肯定一般，顺着她手臂的动作将嘴唇摁上了她的锁骨。  
“呜啊——……呃……哈……”  
舌尖在龙女细小精致的锁骨上碾过，带点威胁却又恰到好处的啃咬，让图拉奇娜的腿间热了起来。她努力地扭动着腰，想要挣脱这个越来越舒服的怀抱。  
“别乱动。”  
拉尔隔着内衣咬住了那小小的凸起，手已经又一次捏住了图拉奇娜的屁股。  
一声呜咽之后，龙女已然想要哭了起来。  
“太、……你太过分了……”  
“叫我拉尔。”  
“我……就不……啊！……”  
鲁加的拇指坏心眼的按揉上一个最不该被人碰触的点，龙女的防线彻底崩溃了，她紧紧勒住拉尔的脖颈，腰身扭动，不知道是为了躲避还是迎合那让人爆炸的快感。图拉奇娜的声音在拉尔耳边带着破碎的喘息：  
“你、你……嗯……啊……不、不要……”  
“谁是你……？嗯？”  
拉尔抬起头，凑近龙女的耳朵，浅浅的亲吻耳垂，呢喃着：  
“叫我拉尔……”  
“呜——拉、拉尔……”  
她的双腿突然紧绷，拉尔却放开了手。在悬崖边突然被拉住的龙女泪眼朦胧地歪头看着拉尔，充满了疑惑。拉尔被她那副模样看得心动不已，一只手轻轻摸上了她的后背，一只手轻巧地分开了她：  
“可能会有点痛。”  
“……痛？唔……”  
舌头侵入的时候，下体似乎也有什么东西带着侵略一般的冲了进来，开始进出她的身体。图拉奇娜竟然不知道那是痛楚还是快感，她唯一能做到的就是紧紧环着面前鲁加的脖子，嘴里无意识地念着：  
“啊……啊……拉尔……拉尔……”  
“乖孩子。”  
仅仅只有一根手指，可似乎已经被那窄小的甬道挤压得不像样子，拉尔强忍着不要弄坏她的心情，细细地品味着面前的龙女。掀开她小巧的内衣，意外丰满的乳房在火光中闪耀着，拉尔吮吸着，手上加快了速度。  
“啊啊……拉尔！拉尔，不要，啊——”  
龙女的悲鸣仿佛像要断气一般，她窒息地将自己塞进拉尔的身体里，第一次却全然巨大的快感彻底将她俘虏。  
整整一夜，这场暴雨没有停息。在小小的山洞里，有些事情也如同大雨一般倾泻而下，冲刷着，淹没着，直到新的一天开始。  
一切都将不同。


End file.

The Vault, true to its name, had the highest, most vaulted ceilings Venice Lysander had ever seen. Its main hall was cavernous, beautifully lit by large, suspended candelabras with their hefty frames laden in tall, flickering candles. The grand stained-glass reliefs at the back of the room were illuminated by seemingly impossible to maintain light sources, showcasing a variety of detailed figures with perfect clarity regardless of the time of day.  
  
Venice had long since come to appreciate the charm of Eorzean ingenuity over the convenience of electricity operated through magitek; there was something mystifying about the processes involved. She tried to imagine what sort of complicated machinations were required to light and hoist so many candles into a position that managed to brighten up the most important sections of the hall all at once.  
  
_Aether. When in doubt, the answer is always aether._  
  
Before the colourful display stood the main dais and altar, presumably the holiest place in the entire room. The dais itself was empty save for a single podium, completely unlike the last two times Venice had laid eyes on it.  
  
_No battles with the Heaven’s Ward or corrupted clergymen today. This is an altogether new and somewhat relieving experience in comparison. Almost. Really starting to wish I had gone to some of those symposiums put on by the Astrologicum in recent moons._  
  
Below the dais, just before the sweeping staircase which led to its summit, stood a newly-crafted statue, moulded out of rubble recovered from Zenith judging by the colouration. The goddess Halone, one of the Twelve, the Fury, proudly brandished her spear along with a stout shield which concealed much of her body. It was hard to ignore her piercing gaze or the fact that the statue was in perfect condition, completely unlike the torn down ones featuring Rhalgr the Destroyer as seen in Venice’s most recent adventures.  
  
There was something familiar about Halone, something welcoming about her presence, something that made Venice think she was home. Even if she did not consider herself religious in the slightest, she would be hard pressed to ignore the influence Halone had over the people she cared very much about, in the place she had come to care about the most. If she ever found herself believing in the gods, it wouldn’t be difficult to follow in the footsteps of a badass valkyrie who was said to have carved her throne out of ice with a single spear.  
  
Between the altar at one and the large, oaken doors which led to a modest foyer beyond was a procession of pews; row after row extended throughout the full length of the main hall. Each had an occupant. In fact, Venice took note of a throng of robed men with pointy hats bringing in more chairs, grumbling all the while about the extra effort while trying to maintain a sense of decorum amidst the growing crowd.  
  
The pillars which denoted each section of seating were adorned with various banners, some featured house symbols which Venice recognised while others were unknown to her. Each was a visual reminder that while the Vault was at the centre of public religious life in the Holy See, it was also the centre of governance when prayers and blessings were not being administered.  
  
_So much for the complete separation of church and state. I doubt that will ever truly change._  
  
More and more people began to pile in, more chairs were fetched to accommodate the lot of them. Nobles, commoners, Elezen, Hyuran, even a couple of foreigners. The variety was staggering, it felt as if all the citizens of Ishgard and the surrounding lands of Dravania had nothing better to do after the evening meal than to come listen to someone else talk for a great length of time.  
  
Dread began to fill Venice’s belly as she realised the vast quantity of her audience. Or at least, she assumed that was the cause of the sensation. It might have been that the Vault itself appeared deceptively benign on that particular evening, a sharp contrast with her previous memories of the place. While most people came to witness or take part in ceremonies, Venice was reminded of darker things.  
  
She glanced upwards, recalling the tragic loss of a great friend, someone who might have become more than such had the luxury of time been on their side. On another occasion she had loss something less tangible: her faith in mankind when the so-called True Brothers of the Faith had made their incredulous demands.  
  
Unbidden, other memories of the events leading up to the conclusion of the Dragonsong War flooded to the surface of her mind. So much unnecessary death, blood, fire, rage, deceit, and despair. The story repeated itself in Ala Mhigo and Doma albeit without the selfsame dragon antagonists, the whims of mankind far more brutal and devastating than their wyvern-kind counterparts.  
  
An organ which had been playing traditional music had begun to die down, the stage was being set at last. The sound of gentle footsteps clad in velvetted fabric brought her back to the present. Instead of granting her immediate relief, Venice was forced to take stock of her future audience. She turned to see who approached her, with any luck it might be a messenger demanding her heroics were needed elsewhere.  
  
“Having second thoughts? I know I would in your position,” Count Artoirel de Fortemps said.  
  
The young nobleman stood nonchalantly next to her, arms crossed loosely over what was obviously a new suit; plush maroon fabric was decorated by freshly polished white-gold buttons, lace encircled the sleeves and collar as was his typical style, more embellishments than usual were present with bright jewels announcing his highborn status, his long hair had been pulled back into a half-ponytail which gave him a very distinguished appearance compared to the errant strands which used to frame his face.  
  
At first Venice didn’t recognise him. She was taken aback by his rich ensemble, confused as to why such a well-dressed gentleman might deign to speak with her. When she caught his eye, she knew at once who it was. He looked very much like his father would have done at his age.  
  
_Most eligible bachelor in Ishgard indeed.._  
  
“There are so many of them, where did they all come from?” Venice said with a gesture towards the chattering crowd.  
  
“Your guess is as good as mine. I must say, I admire your determination to see this through. While my own duties will have me conversing with crowds of similar magnitude at some point in time, it's not something I’m particularly looking forward to. You’re a far braver woman than I.”  
  
“Of course she is, dear brother!” declared a booming voice. Emmanellain de Fortemps bounced towards the pair of introverts with far more energy than was necessary, clapping Artoirel roughly on the shoulder before the older brother could distance himself.  
  
“Ugh, have you even bathed today,” Artoirel grimaced, wiping away as if mud had been thrown on him.  
  
“I have, this is my decorative suit of armour should you wonder if I simply arrived fresh from the garrison without a second thought like some kind of feral beast. But enough about me, what of you, old girl? Ready to put this lot to sleep with your long list of achievements? Please don’t forget the part of yours truly,” he tried to repeat the shoulder clap but Venice was ready for it and had already sidestepped to Artoirel’s other side.  
  
“I’d rather face Nidhogg again than have this many people listening to every word I have to say,” she said truthfully.  
  
“Nonsense! I was there remember? You hardly broke a sweat on the Steps of Faith. Put on a good show though, I’ll give you that. Entertaining your adoring fans after they’ve all had a good feed is likely the easiest and most rewarding task you’ll embark upon this moon. They are so eager to see you after your stint in the war-torn lands to the east. As am I, though admittedly this is cutting into time that I should be spending with the troops. You should venture over before you leave the region, show the newest crop of recruits what will be expected of them in Ala Mhigo. It’d be a huge boost to morale you know.”  
  
“Why are we deploying more knights when the battle has already been won by our esteemed sister?” Artoirel asked warily, tension creeping into his words.  
  
“Because as I keep reminding you, a single decisive battle may have been won but there will certainly be more chances for glory in future engagements. Surely the Garleans will not be content to surrender two provinces at once without an effort made to reclaim them for their own once more. Isn’t that so, Venice?”  
  
“While I am not in a position to speculate on that matter, it is a topic I intend to bring up in my speech tonight,” Venice said carefully.  
  
”War with Garlemald itself, who would have thought the day would come!” Emmanellain said loudly, both Artoirel and Venice tried to shush him before anyone else could take the exclamation out of context. “Quite right, old girl. You can trust me to be discrete with this pertinent information. While I do look forward to sallying forth with the Warrior of Light in the future, I do again stress that you should come by Camp Dragonhead at your earliest convenience. If not to train with the recruits then just to acknowledge the progress we are making. The Temple Knights will and should be the envy of the Grand Companies after all, I’ll settle for no less.”  
  
“And neither shall I,” a soft voice said. There stood Aymeric de Borel, a head taller than either of the Fortemps boys, wearing his classical black and blue and sporting a grin of excitement, “I see that the Warrior of Light is not content to limit the casting of her magics to the field of battle. A pleasure as always and might I add that you look wonderful this evening, Venice.”  
  
“I… thank you,” she managed somehow. The fear of giving a public speech had instilled in her belly a dance of butterflies, a dance which paled in comparison to the efforts made upon Aymeric’s arrival.  
  
“Lord Emmanellain, I should not have to ask this of you but please desist from troubling our honoured guest with trifling tasks, she is not an object that you can wield as you see fit. If you are truly devoted to leading your men then do not ask someone else to inspire them on your behalf.”  
  
“It was merely a suggestion,” Emmanellain began to protest. He was cut off by Artoirel dragging him away.  
  
“Please excuse us, if we don’t go now our seats will be taken. Best of luck with your speech tonight,” Artoriel attempted to bow and control Emmanellain in his bulky armour at the same time. Grudgingly, the younger brother followed along in his wake, giving a slightly crude gesture of encouragement to Venice as they went.  
  
The room began to quiet down as the music stopped altogether.  
  
“Pray forgive Lord Emmanellain’s exuberance, he is more eager than ever to raise his station and is not above riding someone else’s coat tails to achieve his goals. Ah, but let me explain the why of it as you probably don’t listen too closely to whispers at the Crozier; and for good reason given the lack of legitimacy most rumours hold.  
  
Lord Emmanellain was recently turned down in humiliating fashion by Ser Laniaitte in front of their peers. While hardly a new occurrence for the pair, this particular incident seemed to be the straw that broke the dhalmel’s back. There has been an awkward standoff between House Fortemps and House Hallienarte since.  
  
Emmanellain has sworn an oath to undo the damage he has inflicted upon his beloved’s house by becoming the most esteemed commander in our recent campaign with the Alliance. I’m not exactly sure how he thinks he’ll know he’s obtained this elusive status without actually setting foot outside the garrison but stranger things are known to have happened.”  
  
Venice listened intently, grateful for the distractive gossip which granted her stomach time to settle. For a moment, it felt like a casual conversation between friends and not the preamble to a dreadful experience, as if they weren’t in the Vault at all but rather back at the Congregation about to discuss matters of business and state. She concluded that it had been a tactical ploy of words meant to calm her nerves.  
  
“I can’t do this,” Venice declared after taking another sweeping look at the room. “They can’t even accommodate everyone, the upper floor is packed.”  
  
“This was your idea, was it not? We’ve been preparing for days now.”  
  
She wanted nothing more than to be back in that lush lounge room with the crackling fire, sheets of parchment strewn about the floor and furniture. Venice had found the process equal parts fulfilling and frustrating, writing down and sketching out ideas that mostly amounted to crumpled wads of nothingness. But she had to try, she had to put the ideas down somewhere or they would never amount to anything.  
  
The stem of the quill, the ink splotches on her fingertips, she could almost hear the laughter of her old band mates goofing off as they were trying to pen their next inflammatory, anti-establishment musical piece. Those had been the days before she knew what she was really capable of, before she had thought she’d amount to anything other than an irritant thorn in the Empire’s side.  
  
Times had drastically changed, she could rub shoulders with Eorzean elites without thinking twice about it. She wondered briefly if in doing so she was betraying the memory of her old comrades then dismissed the idea as a nonsensical hypothetical. At some point, she had to stop worrying about everyone else and focus on what she would do for her reasons.  
  
Aymeric had elected to keep her company, to keep a silent vigil over her progress so she would not be tempted to give up, opting to continue his own legislative work alongside her. It wasn’t hard to discern whose parchments belonged to who, his handwriting was practically an artform compared to her chocobo scratches.  
  
Occasionally, she asked for his input though he was reluctant to give it, emphasising that she should find her own voice. He could offer her little more than technical advice. If any of his political rivals sensed that Venice was being used as a subtle mouthpiece for his own agenda, the ensuing controversy would undermine the message she was set upon expressing.  
  
“I know and I appreciate the time you’ve put into helping me but it's just.. maybe it was a terrible idea. Who really cares what I have to say anyway.”  
  
“I care,” he looked straight through her and she knew he meant it. The dread in Venice’s stomach turned to guilt, if she backed out she would would be letting both of them down. “You’ve accomplished the impossible many times over, tonight will be no different. They haven’t come to judge you, Venice, only to listen. You need to do this, not for their benefit but for your own.”  
  
“Easy for you to say, you do this sort of thing all the time.”  
  
“If only you had as much faith in yourself as I do,” he reached out to touch her shoulders with both hands, keeping his gaze level with hers. The expression he gave her was one he was most famous for, the one reserved for his knights, the look that encouraged men to feats of prowess they did not know they were capable of performing, the look of unbridled confidence and conviction. “Why did you wish to come to Ishgard so soon after our victory in Ala Mhigo?”  
  
_To find peace. But you already knew the answer to that. Alright, Blue Eyes, you win this one._  
  
“May the Fury grant you strength,” he knew he had won without her saying so. To further the point, he nudged her in the direction of the podium.  
  
Venice steeled herself then began the slow ascent to the awaiting podium; the only sound was that of her high-heeled boots clicking against the polished stone. The ensemble she wore was meant to remind her audience of where she had last fought. She was grateful for the lightweight, flowing material of the layered Ala Mhigan tunic and billowing pants; the last thing she needed was to feel stifled.  
  
She took one, last deep breath before turning to face the music as it were, how badly could she muck up a single speech to all of Ishgard? The Warrior of Light’s maiden address was sure to go down in history, she hoped it wouldn’t be for the wrong reasons.  
  
_But if it is folly to hope then I am content to die a fool._   Aymeric’s words, said just before he convinced Hraesvelgr to save his nation. There were worse fates to be had and she could no longer hold her peace.  
  
“Good evening and welcome all. I was afraid nobody would show up tonight,” Venice cleared her throat and tried to laugh, a few of the audience returned with tentative chuckles of their own.  
  
So many pairs of eyes were looking up at her, she tried to fixate her attention on people she actually knew but that didn’t keep her nervousness at bay. Each familiar face acknowledged her with a curt nod or brief smile of support. She took another deep breath and glanced down at rolls of parchment covered in her own horrid ink squibbles, why did she have to possess both a shaky hand as well as a shaky voice?  
  
“If you aren’t familiar with who I am that’s alright. My name is Venice Lysander, I hail from the city-state of Gridania as a practitioner of white magic. I’m also a member of the Scions of the Seventh Dawn and a ranking lieutenant in the Immortal Flames, neither of which I intend to represent in any official capacity tonight.  
  
Most of you will know me as the Warrior of Light, the slayer of Nidhogg, the liberator of Ala Mhigo, and a litany of other illustrious titles but I implore you to see me as nothing more than an accomplished adventurer for that is how I see myself.”  
  
The notes before her outlined a history lesson, the events which culminated together to explain why an outsider, a non-believer, such as her had been permitted within the walls of a notoriously isolated Ishgard at the time. She could have stuck to that particular script but in that moment she no longer saw any value in it, the past was no longer relevant. The future was of grave concern, though it didn’t feel like anyone besides her seemed to think so.  
  
“The circumstances which led me to your fair city were dubious, to say the least, and I shant bore you with that tale. Suffice it to say, over night I went from being a ‘rising star of the realm’ to a wanted criminal in exile. This was not my first time being cast out albeit it was more forced than the last time it occurred.  
  
I had just began to think of Eorzea as home.Though I started my career as an adventurer in Gridania, it is not the city where I was born. On that singular night, I lost most of the people I had come to see as close allies, as friends, and perhaps a sense of family. There was a bunch of political upheaval which I wasn’t entirely privy to but was apparently responsible for and I was utterly lost without them.  
  
Chaos, that’s the only way to describe it all. Dark days those were. And yet, I was not the only one suffering. This was around the same time the Horde attacks were at their worst, the wards around the Steps of Faith were no longer secure. I recall my first steps in Foundation, destruction all around. It wasn’t exactly the visit I was hoping for, rather it felt more like I had exchanged one tragedy for another.  
  
And to be perfectly honest, I was too distraught to be very grateful back then. I didn’t stop to consider that I was the first foreigner in your city for quite some time or that maybe you wouldn’t appreciate having a heretic with a penchant for regicide roaming around your streets. How could anyone know the truth, you had problems of your own, the Dragonsong War was in full swing.  
  
The key to victory in that war was understanding why it had begun in the first place. One truth led to another and if there is anything I can’t resist, it's freeing people from their delusions. That and getting back at those who hurt the ones I hold dear, especially if in doing so that I might thwart my oldest foes. There is one enemy of mine that I’ve yet to fully overcome, the one that has been nipping at my heels ever since I first came to Eorzea.”  
  
Venice paused then, wondering if she would divulge all of her personal secrets. She realised that only one individual knew of her origins. The rest of the Scions didn’t know, they had not even bothered to ask. How would people react to their revered hero coming from the same land as their enemies? She suspected in Ishgard one’s deeds mattered much more than their bloodline and she doubted Ser Lucia had suffered any grief when she had made the same revelation.  
  
“As I mentioned before, I was not born in Gridania. In the spirit of full disclosure I can tell you that I in fact hail from Garlemald itself. I was born with the name Venezia bas Mercius. My misguided parents sought to raise me in the ways of ladyship and etiquette so that I might pull the rest of them out of their mediocre lives by way of marrying a wealthy legate.  
  
There are only two things that matter to a Garlean: rising in the ranks and making sure everyone else knows their place. No Garlean is free save for the Emperor himself and even that is debatable. They’ll do anything to pretend they are the ones in control. That’s why they seek to conquer the rest of the realm. As long as someone else is suffering more, then they feel empowered. Even if they had a choice, they would seek out servitude, for enslavement is all they are allowed to understand.  
  
A life spent serving another is no life at all, that is the first thought I remember having as a child. I rebelled strongly against the notion of a hierarchy built by the strongest, the most willing to stand on the backs of their peers for personal betterment. Not one for rules or being controlled by others, I left home at an early age and never looked back.  
  
Needless to say, I didn’t need to see the travesties committed in Ala Mhigo and Doma to know what the Empire is capable of doing to its own people. I’ve seen for myself what happens to those who oppose them, who are naive enough think they can change the system from within. It cannot be done.  
  
When I discovered my ability to use magic at the Conjurer’s Guild, I knew I could do more with my life than run. I could make sure nobody else suffered at the hands of the Garleans. To this day, I know not whether that blessing came from Hydaelyn or my impure genetics,” Venice stopped, amused by the irony, “My impurity was a point of great contention in my family, for my parents were both purebloods. In Garlemald, if you are not pure of blood, you may as well be less than nothing. It's a shame they can’t see me now though I doubt they are overly broken up about being rid of me.  
  
The Garlean Empire has always been a threat to the stability and freedom that sets the city-states of Eorzea apart. Operation Archon would have reached this far north had we not been successful in thwarting a single rogue legion and their Ultima Weapon. Perhaps our previous success embolden us too much, perhaps it is why we didn’t think twice about unleashing Omega and crossing Baelsar’s Wall.“  
  
Venice bit her lip and debated whether she would continue discussing politics, a topic she wasn’t qualified to discuss but had very strong opinions on. The Alliance wasn’t interested in what she thought, they would send her to their bidding with the assumption that she was completely on board. She had been cautioned about speaking out against them, should she have need of political favours later. But that wasn’t her game to play, how many of the Alliance leaders had achieved victory against the Empire? Certainly none without her assistance. Besides, it was only their methods, their complete lack of foreplanning, she questioned, not the cause itself.  
  
“It remains to be seen if the Omega Weapon will heed our commands, why did we ever think fighting fire with fire was a reasonable approach? I was there for the council meetings and though the lack of circular debate was a nice change of pace, the lack of discussion as to whether we should go to war or not disturbed me more than their willingness to use a weapon they knew nothing about.  
  
The Alliance is more interested in returning things to the way they once were than finding new ways to do them better. They will take the shortest route possible, even if that means sending men and women to their deaths on the battlefield. We cannot look backwards and move forwards at the same time.  
  
It's a wonder the refugees bothered to come at all, they were treated as a temporary nuisance at best; surely the people of Ul’dah expect them to return whence they came without a second thought, to a land that may be liberated but also lies defenceless, in complete tatters. Do you think they will be grateful for the aid they were rendered? Little wonder the people of Ala Mhigo thought they had been abandoned or the people of Doma forsaken.  
  
The Alliance didn’t exhaust all of its options though there were multiple opportunities to do so. There were no diplomatic attempts made, no economic negotiations levelled against the Empire, no reconnaissance teams sent in, no meetings with the various local groups. All they had was a stubborn hope that the problem to go away of its own accord, that the Wall would remain as the arbitrary line between freedom and tyranny indefinitely.  
  
It took a mad man with a very large axe to grind to tip the Alliance’s hand. As if his first betrayal had not been enough!” Venice could hear her voice rising in volume, her throat practically burned with lava as the words poured out. How cruel it seemed that that one man could make the Alliance act but she could not.  
  
Every memory of Ilberd had cut her deep, whether it be of anger, sadness, pity, or the unanswerable question of why. There had been a time when she had looked up to him, saw what well-disciplined adventurers could become if they had a common purpose. His lust to see his homeland free had nearly doomed the entire world to the next Calamity; he was broken and twisted, a perfect conduit for the Eyes of Nidhogg. She carefully made sure not to mention _that_ part of the tale for it was still unknown what had become of the accursed Eyes.     
  
But she had hardly been the only victim, Raubahn had arguably suffered more. He should have known better the second time around. As soon as he set foot on the other side of the Wall, the general was like a hound on the scent and could not be stopped. How fortunate the Alliance was for the ineptitude of their opponent, Zenos yae Galvus, a tactical imbecile who knew not how to combat an organised force or treat his own resources as more than disposable fodder.  
  
The lack of any grand strategies from their side worried her, what would they do when they were set upon by Varis zos Galvus’ primed legions? The Emperor would seek vengeance for the death of his son, he would want to make an example of the tiny corner of the world that did not already bend to his will. Venice also could not shake the notion that there was more to Varis then they knew, he had been in the right place at the right time during the push into Azys Lla. Questions to figure out at another time, she could already see her audience’s interest wane as she tried to get to the heart of the matter.  
  
“I hear the whispers of rebellion have spread further within Garlean territory since our victory at Ala Mhigo. While that ought to sound like good news, it means the Empire will grow desperate to reign in the discontents under its rule. Desperation leads to dangerous, unpredictable behaviour. While I have mixed feelings about Eorzea’s place in this new political landscape, I do not harbour any doubts about how treacherous our path has recently become.  
  
Too often I was denied extra support against Gaius van Baelsar and his campaign to colonise Eorzea, told that nobody wanted to outright antagonise the Empire lest we set upon a path we could not hope to escape from. And for good reason, the Garleans are an adaptive and menacing foe with their superior magitek, cunning intellect, unscrupulous tactics, and advantageous numbers in both manpower and mechanised labour.  
  
Caution seemed a reasonable course. What has changed since then? Now the city-state leaders are in a sudden hurry to poke the hornet’s nest, stripping the Empire of not one but two of its provinces. If they think a swift victory will lead to a lasting peace, they are sorely mistaken. While it is true that progress cannot begin until the fighting is done, it will not happen right away; further interruptions of conflict will only ensure its delay. We have done little to prevent this from happening, our troops already come home thinking the worst is over.  
  
Make no mistake, our foray into the East was done as an invasion force. It's easy to forget that because of the atrocities committed by the Empire. Regardless of the circumstances and the justification used, we were perceived by those living legally there to be a threat. They had every right to defend themselves against us. Not everyone supported the Resistance, the Resistance itself wasn’t a unified organisation. There were many who were quite alright living under that oppressive regime as long as it provided them with security. The Alliance tore that away. We aggressively liberated nations that did not ask for our aide, leaving them vulnerable to reprisal afterwards.  
  
In Doma, Lord Hien, was willing to sacrifice his life so that his people may live as they chose to, even if that meant living under the Empire. Freedom is often taken for granted; moreover, it is often misunderstood. Having a choice does not mean that the choice made will necessarily be beneficial. To force people to live as you want them to is tyranny and if there’s anything Ishgard understands with perfect clarity it's what sort of form the yoke of tyranny can take.  
  
Tyranny disguises itself as the one true way to peace, it may even actually care about protecting you but ultimately it will pay the highest price to obtain the power needed to control once free people. The pursuit of power corrupts. Every time. For someone to have power, someone else must lose theirs, this is the lesson I saw repeated in the East.  
  
I do not advocate that we should do nothing, for we ignore the Garlean Empire at our greatest peril. They wish to enslave the world, they are no better than the primals they loathe. They can be beaten but it will take more than brute strength to safeguard our borders. We must be cautious about how we proceed, we must be smarter than them without resorting to their level of depravity. More than anything, we should never allow our lust for justice turn us into what we have sworn to fight against or all we do will be for nought.  
  
As a healer, it shouldn’t be too surprising that I am loathe to go to war. My duty is to preserve life, not destroy it. War should always be a last resort. As a Scion and an adventurer, I have not been beholden to any one nation’s agenda, I’ve had the freedom to do as I please. I would like that sort of freedom to be available to everybody.  
  
However, as a hero of the realm, I have certain responsibilities to uphold, regardless of my personal feelings on any one matter.  When words fail, steel prevails. Sometimes you have no choice but to take up arms. That’s where we are at now.  
  
We’ve already crossed the point of no return, that journey has already begun. We must now decided what the destination will be. If that means going all the way to Garlemald itself, we must be certain. If we hesitate, we’re already dead. We’ve already accomplished a great deal but unless we can protect what we’ve achieved, it will be stripped away as if it had never been there at all.  
  
There is so much we can learn from the Dragonsong War. Whenever we were opposed by Nidhogg and his ilk, we persisted through and emerged victorious. We pushed past every obstacle hurled in our path because that’s what Eorzeans do, that’s what _Ishgardians_ do best. You are relentless, just as the Fury is.  
  
I may not believe in the Twelve but I’ll be damned if I’ll allow anyone to dictate an individual’s choices as to who and how they worship. Our choices are what define us. Your devotion to helping those in need saved me when I was at my lowest, when I could not find the will to continue my journey. I have lost much and so have you, is there anyone in this city who has not grieved for a fallen knight or a loved one who died due to preventable circumstances?”  
  
Venice tried to force memories of the fallen away so she would not lose her focus; she could not do anything about the warm tears slowly making their way down her nose and cheeks. Haurchefant, Ysayle, and so many others. She had been struggling to find her purpose again; spending time in Ishgard had helped but the pain was still there. The pain would never go away. Nonetheless, she had to keep going, had to keep fighting because to do otherwise would dishonour the sacrifices that had been made on her behalf.  
  
“Were we not shown the truth, given the chance to amend for the mistakes of the past? Do you not worry for what befalls your soldiers when they are so far from home, fighting another war so soon after the last? When does peace begin? I know you’re still struggling to come to terms with so many changes at once, as is your government as it continues its democratic transition. These are uncharted waters for all involved. Perhaps we cannot make sense of it now but rest assured that the Alliance could not function without Ishgard’s continued support.  
  
I saw your knights on the field and they outshone the Grand Companies in every way; you should be proud of them for flawlessly performing their duty, for leading the charge and spreading hope wherever they went. Both the Ala Mhigans and Domans had suffered so much, so far beaten into submission were they that they did not see the purpose in rising up to fight their oppressors any longer. Though they had an absence of courage, the Alliance forces did not, especially those wearing blue and gold. Your knights gave them reason to believe that freedom was worth fighting for, worth dying for, that better days lay ahead of them so long as they were willing to try.  
  
The stakes are higher now than when the Horde was our enemy. We must be just as committed if we are to continue to push back against the Empire. And we will have to push them back, there is no doubt that our recent victory will not go unopposed. Truth, freedom, love, if we value these things then we cannot afford to grow complacent. One victory in Ala Mhigo won’t be enough.  
  
Eorzea needs your tell-tale cooperative spirit, your ability to see through the hard times, your unrelenting pursuit of justice, your unbreakable faith in the Fury and each other. Ishgard will be the beacon in the dark days ahead which the other city-states will look to for support and inspiration.The realm as a whole needs more knights to protect her so let’s fulfill our common duty together. If you will watch my back, I will have yours.  
  
And though my allegiance lies with other associations, regardless of the colours I wear, you can bet that I am always going to be out there fighting first and foremost for _your_ right to peace and prosperity. I will endeavour to represent the good people of Ishgard wherever I go, this a solemn pledge that I swear to you today. When the fighting is done, if it ever is done, I want to return here to live as you do, as a knight, not only in name, but in merit as well.  
  
I’ve fallen hard for this great city and all her citizens. You’ve given me sanctuary and something to believe in. A good friend once asked me what I wanted, not as a Scion, but for myself and this is my answer: love.The Dragonsong War was based on a love story that had gone awry. In the end, love set things right again. That is the message the rest of the realm needs to hear right now.  
  
Thank you for listening to me prattle on, these words have been in my heart for quite sometime and I am glad to share them at last. Should you wish to talk to me about anything at all, I will make myself available in the coming days. It doesn’t have to be anything serious and I am always up for regaling tales over drinks at the Forgotten Knight.  
  
May you enjoy the rest of your evening and may you ever walk in the light of the crystal.”    
  
The crowd was eager to disperse, Venice had gone way over her allotted time. She closed her eyes and waited for the adrenaline to recede. By the end of it, she had worked herself up more than she thought possible. She had to be wary of her emotions sneaking up on her like that, lest they try to take control. Still, at least it wasn’t the same crippling anxiety that had befallen her at the start, that had to count as an improvement.  
  
“Well, well. Seems the Warrior of Light has found her voice at last. You’re starting to sound like a good and proper noblewoman, Venice.”  
  
“Hilda! Oh come now, you know I’m the lowest of the lowborn,” Venice beamed, embracing her smaller friend. “You are a hard woman to track down, I’ve been trying for days now.”  
  
“Aye sorry about that,” Hilda said after Venice relented. “Some poor sod thought I needed to be in a position of authority and I’ve had to learn how to act the part. Been doing all sorts of training, training about training even, putting together instructive routines for the Watch. Speaking of which, I’m running late to my post right now but I had to come and see what all the fuss was about.”  
  
“Before you head off, can I ask for your genuine opinion, from one lowborn to another?” Venice asked in a hushed voice.  
  
“Shoot.”  
  
“What’s your honest assessment of the general mood around here lately? Has there been actual change or is everyone reverting back to the old ways of thinking? I feel like I need to know that what we did...stuck somehow. That all the fighting is worthing something in the end.”  
  
“Hm,” Hilda paused to think before delivering her answer. “Well, it's better than it was. The push into Gyr Abania has been a mixed blessing. Soldiers don’t care about what kind of person is fighting next to them, the bonds of friendship forged on the battlefield are ironclad and indiscriminate. But it also serves as a distraction, easier to follow orders than to think about why we became so divided in the first place.  
  
On the other, other hand, our knights saw some terrible things over there that made them count their blessing back home. A dragon looks like a monster, whether it is friend or foe but a man in armour is less obvious. The Garleans did a real number on their people, feels like we’ve dodged a bullet thanks to your previous intervention.  
  
As you alluded to: when the fighting ends, the actual hard work begins. I am not sure that Ishgard is the gleaming example you want us to be. Not yet, but we’re getting there. Every day is another chance to try. You gave us the opportunity to make our own choices and we won’t waste it. Maybe the other nations you’ve set free will handle the change faster, who knows.”  
  
“Maybe,” Venice wasn’t sure, the situations weren’t entirely the same. “They’ve been hurt real bad and it's going to take awhile to get them going again. In the meantime, we do what we do best. I’ve been thinking about taking up training as a machinist, among other disciplines.”  
  
“Oh? You’re more than welcome to come out to the range and try your hand at it, could borrow my gun if you don’t have one of your own. I’ve heard Garleans are inherently sharp shots, you might be able to teach us a thing or two,” the half-Elezen said with a wicked grin, reaching up to affectionately pat the carbine on her back, forgetting that weapons were not permitted inside the main hall unless for ceremonial reasons. “Bugger, I better go before I get yelled at. We’ll do ‘guns and ale’ one afternoon, will be a lot of fun. You could even bring your boyfriend though I doubt it would be his cup of tea.”  
  
And with that leader of the Hounds was gone, running out the door to retrieve her weapon so that she may begin her evening watch. There were many things that bound the people of Ishgard together: deeply entrenched traditions, a shared faith, sense of honour, the pursuit of duty above all else. The importance of family whether their members were related through blood or adoption also could not be overstated. None of the other cities had a comparable tight-knit community as far as Venice could tell.  
  
“She says that as if I’ve never shot anyone before,” an older voice said. It wasn’t who Venice was expecting to hear.  
  
“Have you?” she asked incredulously.  
  
Lord Edmont de Fortemps rubbed his chin thoughtfully, as if pondering how best to respond. Then, with a halcyonic twinkle in his eye, he said, “A story for another time, my dear. But I did not come here to discuss myself. This is your evening after all, I know how stressful this must have been. You often play your cards close to your chest, speaking up only when it is necessary.  
  
Tonight you were full of drive and purpose, you spoke from the heart with integrity and undaunted conviction. I shouldn’t have assumed you’d do any less, all of my children have grown into distinguished leaders; my only daughter is no exception. I am proud of you and I am certain Haurchefant would say the same.”  
  
“Thank you, Lord Edmont, that means a lot coming from you,” Venice said, the words fumbled out as her emotions surged. _Proud_. Her own flesh and blood had treated her as an unwanted object but an Elezen gentleman who looked nothing like her had done the complete opposite. He had shown her what family was supposed to mean.  
  
“For now, I must take my leave. Pray excuse me,” he gave her a shallow bow before shuffling off into the crowd.  
  
Venice later caught sight of the count of House Durendaire, a stern look played out over his sharp features as he watched her from a distance. His conniving expression was interrupted when Edmont approached him. Venice had a sense that his goal was to keep the count busy, for which she was grateful. She had no headspace left for local politics that evening.  
  
“Did he just…?” Emmanellain stuttered.  
  
“I believe so, yes,” Artoirel responded, sounding equally dumbfounded.  
  
“The highest of praises,” Aymeric agreed, standing just behind Venice, who was too lost for words to acknowledge him. Nevertheless, she took silent comfort in his presence, additionally noting his inquisitive expression; it wasn’t often that he struggled to find the words to ask what he wanted. Had her speech been too honest, did she say too much or leave something important out?  
  
“Here she comes, remember what I told you,” Emmanellain whispered to his brother. “Act interested but not too interested, trust me on this.”  
  
“Ah, Lady Lucia, you look positively radiant this evening, would you join us for a moment?” Artoirel beckoned Ser Lucia to their small gathering, promptly ignoring whatever illicit advice Emmanellain had given him.  
  
“For a moment, my lord. I have an early morning so cannot linger too long,” Lucia’s cheeks were moderately flushed. Venice half-expected her to admonish Artoirel for lavishing her with an undue compliment but she didn’t seem to annoyed by the broach in protocol.  
  
“We were just about to discuss an upcoming dinner party that I was planning on hosting,” the young count began. “Nothing special, a small group of like minded friends enjoying a good meal together. I was hoping you’d be open to an invitation?”  
  
“I could be, who else is going?”  
  
“Emmanellain?” Artoirel suddenly seemed very interested in his younger brother’s presence.  
  
“What? I don’t have time for social events,” Emmanellain brushed him off hurriedly.  
  
“What my lord means to say is he doesn’t have a suitable date for such an event,” Honoroit piped up, having joined the group at last.  
  
“That is not true! In fact, I’ve had to turn down many a fair maiden this past moon alone. No, I have a duty to uphold and will not be deterred by leisurely temptations. I do apologise for missing out though I can vouch for Artoirel’s attention to detail which you must see for yourself.”  
  
“And what of my beloved sister, Lady Venice?” Artoirel sounded deterred, his eyes silently begging her to agree so that he might not have to endure a solitary date with the good knight. “Surely you and Lord Aymeric would like to attend? It has been too long since we all sat together for a laid back conversation.”  
  
“My schedule hardly permits any free time..” Aymeric began but Venice cut him off almost immediately, grabbing his arm gently within her own. He didn’t make any effort to pull away.  
  
“We’ll be there!” she declared a bit too loudly. Artoirel practically laughed with relief, as did Lucia who clearly didn’t want to be left alone with him either. Venice couldn’t quite tell if the awkwardness between them was due to nerves or something else, the last time she had seen them in close proximity to one another was during the mess at Falcon’s Nest. Emmanellain gave her an affirmative look, which was good enough for her.  
  
“I suppose if I move things around I can open up a single evening when we will both be off-duty, though you’ll have to provide sufficient forewarning,” Aymeric didn’t sound especially thrilled about being volunteered against his own volition but neither was he interested in denying Venice what she desired. Artoirel had been right, it had been too long since they all gathered together as friends rather than as political allies. It could even be fun under the right circumstances.  
  
“Sounds like good company to me,” Lucia said with a hesitant smile, looking over to Aymeric for approval. He nodded and Venice gave her an encouraging pat on the arm.  
  
“We can shop for new dresses together, how exciting,” she said with mock enthusiasm, hoping that was the appropriate thing to say though she didn’t relish the idea of having to doll up for a casual dinner affair. No, if Artoirel had any romantic interest in Lucia then it would not due to cut corners, she would have to do her best to support him.  
  
“Should you ever feel inclined to reminiscence about our shared homeland, I would be more than willing to oblige you,” Lucia said, not exactly happy about the idea of shopping either.  
  
“I appreciate that though I suspect such a conversation would be a grim affair,” Venice replied flatly.  
  
“Aye. Regardless of the past, you are one of us now. The Empire’s loss is our gain. They will see the error of their ways soon enough,” she turned her attention away from Venice, bid the lords a good evening then departed.  
  
Everyone went their separate ways then to mingle amongst the crowd, Aymeric sticking close to Venice, seemingly enjoying the lack of attention. She stopped to shake hands and tell stories, checking up on the various people she had helped in one way or another. Venice was practically overwhelmed by the goodwill that was thrown at her, she knew that she was favoured by the populace but it unsettled her to see them adore her so openly, as if she were Halone herself. The people needed her and she needed them. It was humbling to see firsthand what sort impact her choices had made, confirming that her heroism was more than fodder for mythological tales, reinvigorating her desire to see justice delivered to her enemies.  
  
The night wore on and Venice’s voice wore out. Socialising was hardly her strong suit. She began to look towards the exit and caught the gaze of a lone priest who was trying very hard to hide his willingness to engage with the heretic.  
  
“I remember you,” she said, approaching him. He nearly jumped from fright. “You’re the one who accused me of turning your world upside down, refusing to believe that the archbishop was anything but a good man.”  
  
“I’d hardly be the only one to think such things,” the man in the stuffy robes pointed out.  
  
“You clearly want to say something without saying it. Why don’t you just get it over with before the opportunity slips you by?” Venice tried to keep her tone even to not ruffle his feathers any further.  
  
“Is it better to endure the painful truth than to live in blissful ignorance? Some days I do wonder,” the man’s dark eyes flicked between Venice and Aymeric. ”I am surprised that a heretic could share the same values as Halone’s chosen. You’re not quite the upstart that I originally took you for and I owe you an apology.”  
  
“That’s not necessary..” she began, slightly caught unawares by his candour.  
  
“It is, you’ve been our light in the darkness,” he implored. Then he shifted his attention back to the lord commander, “You, on the contrary, have been extinguishing her flame with your efforts, or rather lack of effort.”  
  
“This is about the archbishop vacancy, isn’t it?”  
  
“You promised a separation of church and state but all there is now is the state,” the priest pushed on, suddenly finding the courage to speak his mind. “They say you don’t seek power but the evidence says otherwise. It's only a matter of time before all these changes threaten to undo the entirety of what we hold dear. How convenient is must be to be without a political rival who may defend the rights of the church. You can do as you please without any opposition, how is that any different than the old system?”  
  
Venice calmly put out her hand to dissuade Aymeric’s response, the same way he had done at Hraesvelgr. She gave him a stern look then continued to address the priest in his stead, ”You do not need to place your trust in one man any longer, trust your fellow citizens, in their representatives. So what if somebody isn’t telling you how to do your job any more, you are free to make your own decisions now.  
  
I understand there is much happening at once, that it might be frightening to open your doors to outsiders who may not be as supportive as I have been. But shouldn’t you see this as an opportunity to convert new souls? To help those in need, as you have done in the past?  
  
I know you don’t believe me but I can’t stress this enough: Thordan was no different than Emperor Varis or any other dictator. I’m not sure if you’ve ever encountered a primal thrall before, they do not have any thoughts or feelings of their own, nor are they capable of holding onto their faith. Is that the future you would have preferred? We can do so much more as a free people working together, will you be a part of that movement or will you cling to old falsehoods?”

“How do I know that _he_ will do any better?”  the priest said venomously, pointing to Aymeric.  
  
“I am not my father,” he said coolly.  
  
“On that much, we can agree.”  
  
Venice stood between them lest the coolness turn into anger. In a soft voice she continued where she had left off before the unbidden interruption, ”The people of Ishgard are struggling, confused by new rules and coming to terms with past faults. Some are in deep mourning, utterly lost without their dear ones. Will you leave them to languish while you wait for somebody else to take the lead?  
  
Mayhap you should continue to do the things you normally do: interpret the scriptures as you see fit, continue to offer your blessings, and render succor. Make the most of the second chance you have been given. If not for your sake, than for theirs.”  
  
The man went silent, bowing his head to consider Venice’s words, “We’re so used to the wars within, the wars without, that it's easy to forget about love. There is much merit in what you’ve said tonight. You have given me much to ponder during my next period of contemplation. Thank you. Good evening to you, my lady, my lord.”  
  
The priest left the pair of them alone with an awkward silence hanging in the air.  
  
“Love,” Aymeric said tentatively, as if trying the word out for the first time. Her heart skipped a beat, waiting for him to continue. A serious expression was quickly replaced by a wry smile, ”They should have given _you_ a seat in the House of Lords.”  
  
“We have got to work on your sense of humour,” she said, abundantly relieved that they weren’t going to have _that_ conversation.  
   
\---  
  
Venice took one step outside and knew immediately that she was not adequately dressed for Ishgard’s unforgiving cold-weather. She had spent too much time in the Far East, forgetting what kind of mess snow and ice could leave behind on stone-lined streets. She shivered and tried to tuck her hands under her arms. Plumes of vapour turned into small crystals with each breath she took, a nearby streetlamp snuffed out as a heavy gust pushed sheets of fresh snow towards every surface.  
  
She could barely make out the spires in the distance, nevermind the other side of the street which led towards the affluent residences of the Pillars. Other streetlamps which remained lit glowed eerily to mark the way. Another strong gust threatened to bowl her over. The crowd was thinning out; everyone else wore furs and high boots, both fashionable and mindful of the elements.  
  
Despite her prickling skin and reddening cheeks, Venice was awed by the sight of fresh snow. Once the wind died down again, she could really appreciate the silent beauty surrounding her. Icicles clung defiantly to the eaves above, puddles of ice reflected the light coming through the stained glass, a layer of benevolent white concealed all that it touched.  
  
She had seen a lot of magic in her travels, some of it good and some of it bad. Some of it was utterly indescribable. But nothing took her breath away quite like watching frozen crystals drifting slowly down from the sky above. The only sight that could possibly compare were the shooting stars she had seen on occasion during her time in the Churning Mists and that had mildly terrified her as she had imagined meteors raining calamities down on other distant worlds. Snow was benign, peaceful, and though problematic when it accumulated, a reminder that together each new flake could create something more. She felt her anxiety melt away as the snowflakes continued their descent.  
  
As if on cue, Aymeric rejoined her then. Silently, he undid the clasp of his cloak and placed it upon Venice’s quivering shoulders. She was sure it was a gentle gesture but the heavy weight of the garment caught her by surprise.Dark wyvern scales on the outside deflected the cool crystals of snow and ice, the inner lining concealed what she suspected was yak’s wool. It was altogether too big for her though she was not a small highlander by any means.  
  
“Thanks” she said, looking up at him.  
  
How strange he appeared without being clad in his iconic blue attire. He didn’t reprimand her for coming so ill-prepared, instead he seemed lost in thought. She loved that pensive look, the furrowed brow that said he was more likely to solve a problem through deliberate consideration than with the cut of his blade. He was more than adept at both methods but there was something telling about his preference for the former.  
  
After a long lull, Venice spoke up, “So how do you think it went? And don’t sugar coat it, I can handle the brutal truth.”  
  
“For the most part you did quite well. Struggled a bit at first, probably a result of nerves, but once you tapped into what you needed to stoke your passion, you were unstoppable, every word was raw and powerful. The audience clung to you as you drove home what was ultimately an optimistic message, given the circumstances. You barely stuck to the notes we had gone over so even I was surprised by what you had to say. Surprised and deeply impressed. There’s a budding orator within you.”  
  
“That may be but I don’t want to repeat this experience any time soon. I’m so glad its over.”  
  
“You’ve grown a great deal since we first met in the Intercessory, it's been a real privilege to be a part of that,” he said with profound honesty.  
  
Venice recalled their first meeting in vivid detail, amused that she had dreaded it at the time. She had had her fill of appeasing incessant nobles that didn’t want to have anything to do with her so her expectations had been quite low. But Haurchefant had held his fellow knight in high regard and she was willing to give him a singular chance to prove her wrong, which he did.  
  
Like all the others, he had an errand for her to complete. In hindsight, it was the first true mission given to the Scions at a time when the rest of the Alliance was reluctant to engage in their services. Unlike the others, the task was equally a friendly gesture meant to benefit people Aymeric knew very little about in the hopes of fostering good will.  
  
He wasn’t merely trying to safeguard the Ishgardian border, but rather attempting to give validity to the Scions when they needed it most. He had taken a leap of faith, placing his trust in complete in strangers, hoping they could live up to the reputation they proclaimed. From their very first encounter, he had been looking out for them. For _her_.  
  
“You used to be more idealistic,” Venice quipped with a grin. How far they had come since then. He gave a half-hearted laugh but said nothing more. Together they watched the snow fall.  
  
“Come, we should have a drink and get out of this cold before we both freeze to death. I’ve recently acquired a couple of bottles of Doman plum wine, a celebratory gift from Lord Hien. I had thought to save them for a special occasion but I daresay any evening spent with you fits that description.”  
  
Venice was distracted as she watched snow crystals nestle against his dark curls. She was relieved to have gotten so much off her chest that evening, so much had been weighing her down. If she had doubts about the war then she was certain that the loved ones of the soldiers fighting so far from home did as well. She needed the people of Ishgard to know they were important to her, that she would look after them no matter what the future held.  
  
For too long she had kept her thoughts to herself, too long she had gone through the motions of being the Warrior of Light without thinking enough about why she fought. Finally she knew her purpose, she had a home and a family that truly cared about her. She had something to fight for. To say it all out loud had made it real. Whether it was the cloak upon her shoulders or that sudden realisation which granted her warmth, she did not know. It could simply have been the smile Aymeric afforded her, like he could see no one else.  
  
She laughed, the relief giving way to a sense of carefree happiness she hadn’t quite felt since the war had begun, “Lead on, lord commander.”  
  
Hope. That’s what she had.  
  
_But if it is folly to hope then I am content to die a fool._  
  
\---  
  
Venice rolled onto her side and immediately wish she had not.The bright morning rays of Hydaelyn filtered through the high bedroom window, bringing upon her a piercing headache accompanied by a raging hangover. The usual morning mind fog was thicker than it ought have been, she could scarcely remember how much she had had to drink or when she had found her way to bed. Grudgingly, she tighten the knot of fabric which held her modesty in place and made to move out from under the covers, moderately embarrassed that she was still wearing the same clothes from the day before.  
  
It was neither her bed nor was she alone. She looked over to find Aymeric lost in deep slumber, gone to another world, scarcely believing that with a list of responsibilities a malm long that he ever found time to rest. If she were feeling the effects from the wine then he surely would as well so she consigned to let him sleep it off. With great care as to not disturb him, she began to unbury herself from the heavy, woollen dunner.  
  
Despite her best efforts, the blankets slipped from his shoulder, revealing the top portion of the grisly scar which adorned his exposed torso: a stark reminder that none made it through war unscathed. She winced, having not been close enough to see the wound in great detail before, fighting off the instinct to cast a healing spell. Saved by the grace of the Fury, some would say. _You’ll make a believer out of me yet_ , she thought to herself.  
  
It was a high price to pay for the sake of progress but at least he had pulled through the ordeal, too many others were not as fortunate. Her own scars were less visible, how many more would each of them acquire before they reached journey’s end? She resecured the blankets around him then leaned over to brush aside the locks against his forehead, gingerly kissing the selfsame spot before getting up from the bed, bracing her bare feet for the inevitable cold floor.  
  
The floorboards beneath the rug had been warmed by the morning sun, granting her a reprieve from the iciness that was typical of the early half of the day. She tiptoed quietly towards the window to look out at the busy street below, listening to the chatter of the commonfolk freely going about their normal lives. The storm from the night before had fully dissipated, there was an energy in the air that she hadn’t felt in the East. Some day the people of Ala Mhigo and Doma would enjoy the same privileges of those in Ishgard.  
  
For a moment, her hangover did not cause her pain. She closed her eyes again and tried to recall fragments of memories through the brief lapses between headaches. The speech had gone over as well as she could have hoped for though she doubted it would be her last. What she was certain of was that there were bound to be more in her future, more rallying cries, more preparations, more fighting, and plenty more wounds to heal. It wouldn’t stop until Emperor Varis was brought to heel and even that wasn’t assured to be the end. No rest for the righteous, indeed.  
  
Her previous life before Eorzea felt like it had been an entire lifetime ago, as if it had happened to somebody else. She remember the day of her first exile, she had been hungover then as well but not because of drinking too much of an expensive, foreign drop that tasted like insatiable sugared candies where one sip was never enough.  
  
She had drowned herself the night before in some cheap swill, the potent poison of preference for those living from gig-to-gig, the sort of drink that was easier to come by than the magical herb with the soft after-effects which her bandmates would rather have procured. The morning sun had been just as warm as it was then in Ishgard, only the buildings of Garlemald were more tall, reflective, and harsh. The imposing streets were full of people walking in uniforms, heads down, trying not to be seen as they scampered off into the shadows.  
  
Venice had been reluctant to join her comrades that morning for practice, they had spent the past week yelling and screaming at one another about the direction the band should take. Anger was often the catalyst for their best content but she had reached the point where she was getting tired of picking up after everyone else. Though she was the second to youngest of the five members of Coeurl Calamity, she had been unofficially saddled with the role of Mother Hen, acting as mediator and caretaker for her more rambunctious counterparts.  
  
But that morning none of them were prepared for the fate that lay in store for them. The lead singer had silently held up a newspaper with a wanted ad that featured pictures of all of them. They crowded around in a circle waiting for someone to take the lead, nobody pointed fingers or cast blame. One member even held her tongue, knowing better than to say “I told you so” when the rest had disparaged her notion of joining the airship troupe that soared beyond the borders of their oppressive homeland. They had pretended to be bigger than they were, hubris finally catching up with the young band of amateur anarchists.  
  
The sound of sirens and shouting a street over made the decision for them, all five splitting up with only the clothes on their backs to find their own individual paths out of the city. Later it would become known that their small band was hardly alone in the purge, the magistrates had finally gotten their way by convincing then Emperor Solus zos Galvus to rid his provinces of those suspected of committing acts akin to sedition. While the Emperor had been known to tolerate artistic freedom, the rapid growth of his territory was beginning to pose a problem, easier to keep the magistrates in check than deal with potential repercussions later.    
  
In the wake of the Calamity, Venice had begun to see life in Ilsabard as a blessing, they had avoided much of the fallout. She couldn’t imagine making the journey south across the desolate mountains, back towards the coastal village that she had left behind as a child, towards the unknown across the sea on the continent of Aldenard. Had the people of Eorzea not been wiped off the face of the world by the fall of Dalamud? What sort of backwards people would be left there.  
  
She didn’t have a choice, it was the only place the Empire had not engulfed. Her band had sought to instill the fire of rebellion in their countrymen, using the power of music and creativity to motivate them to do more than complain about their lot in life. But they had failed, miserably so, she had lived on the street like a criminal and thought herself better than the people who had been obliterated by a false moon, what a fool she had been. She had thought of her bandmates as her friends but when push came to shove, they abandoned each other without so much as a word.  
  
That winter had been one of the harshest, even compared to the icy landscape of Coerthas which Venice would come to be familiar with later. Somehow a city girl had made her way to the hunting lodges southwest of Garlemald, taking whatever odd job she could that would reward her with scraps of sustenance. For once, her lack of a third eye had become a boon, nobody in the countryside had patience for pureblood nonsense.  
  
They didn’t have much patience for someone without any coin either but she made do, eavesdropping on the hunters and mimicking the tools of their trade. All it took was a pliable sapling to make a suitable bow, granted she went through many of them before she worked out how to treat the wood with oil.  
  
She should have died more times than she could count, there had been one particularly bad memory of rigid frostbite in the mountains when a poacher had taken pity, entrusting her with his precious pelts. They had provided her warmth but her fingers were too frozen to string the bow to hunt. Later she would sell the pelts off. When she did so, she came across a bulletin that declared the purge of corrupted artists by the Empire had been a resounding success. She never found out what happened to all of her previous band, only two of them had been referred to in the declaration; one had been taken out by a hired assassin and the other by firing squad. She wadded up the paper for kindling and wondered how much longer she would survive.  
  
One misstep after another led her to blistering heat of Gyr Abania, she hardly recalled how she made it through the extreme conditions. The easy part had been killing a Garlean patrolman and disguising herself to get across the Wall. After that she had discarded her old name, sworn off ever playing an instrument again so long as she lived, wandered into a travelling merchant on the way to Gridania, and discovered what the hells aether manipulation was all about.  
  
Venice shivered as the memories washed over, remembering how scared she had been that she would die unknown and alone in that cold forest or, more cruelly, that she would be ambushed by a member of the Ala Mhigan Resistance. If she had not been so talented at conjureration, she doubted the Gridanians would have tolerated her presence for long either.  There had been so much movement back then, so little time to feel invested in any one place or people. Her list of enemies had long since grown, as had her allies.  
  
She felt someone come up behind her. In the past she would have drawn her weapon. Instead she leaned back and allowed him to get close enough to envelop her waist with his long arms. Aymeric rested his chin against her shoulder, one ear brushing ever so slightly against her cheek. Together, in comfortable silence, they enjoyed the warmth of the morning. The storm was gone and peace reigned in its place. She reached out to gently touch his other ear, running her thumb along the back of its full length. How far she had come since Garlemald, to the sweet embrace of one who held the type of authority she once despised.  
  
She had found herself in the possession of something too precious to lose: the city of Ishgard, the idea of a nation governed by the people was worth protecting. Should the Empire or any other nefarious element deign to set foot within the city Venice Lysander coveted, they would be forced to face her long before Aymeric or his knights could even contemplate drawing their weapons. She would willing lay her life down for the sake of Aymeric’s vision, _her_ vision for the future. At long last, the Warrior of Light knew her place.  
  
Aymeric pulled her closer, nuzzled her cheek then whispered into her ear, “Today is going to be a beautiful day.”  
  
She couldn’t agree more.


End file.

The Vault’s inner chamber emptied out as the members of the House of Lords dispersed to their respective offices or lavish homes for the evening. Though many of the upper clergy’s administrative rooms had been converted for the new government’s use, not everyone had a serviceable office on sight. Those who did not found it a convenient excuse to cover up their lack of diligence. But not Ser Aymeric de Borel, who had politely declined the offer to reclaim the Archbishop’s former lair as his own; he was more than content to continue his tireless crusade from the Congregation, sometimes to the chagrin of his officers.

He stepped down from the elevated Speaker’s chair with moderate relief, reminding himself that it was not the throne which his predecessors had craved. Initially, he had been hesitant about the role but contrary to the title’s description, he was the one who had to speak the least during the long, quarrelsome sessions. Better to have someone not representing the interests of the High Houses than not.

Battles on the floor were not won by drawing blood, if they were won at all. While some of his colleagues had been blessed with silver tongues, most were covered in ruthless barbs. He was not a general in the field, merely a quiet observer, stepping in to mediate between bloodthirsty nobles who had not acclimated to life after the war.

There was no hurry to return to his desk, he could decipher the scrolls of notes later. If he waited long enough for the foyer to clear, he might even get away unnoticed, he could hardly afford to add more work to his crunched schedule.

In an effort to bide time, he tried to think of more uplifting thoughts: the dinner night at House Fortemps with the Warrior of Light herself wrapped affectionately around him throughout the entire evening, not exactly the romantic night he had hoped for but not entirely without its highlights either.

\---

He found her sitting alone by the fireplace, enjoying a lull away from the small talk over the dinner table. She could tell a story with poise and grace but listening to others go on about subjects she wasn’t as familiar with made her bored and restless. Honoriot pressed something piping hot into her waiting hands before returning to his other duties elsewhere.

“Had too much to drink already?” he said gently, indicating the mug of hot chocolate Venice was favouring.

“Aye, trying not to reach that point. It has recently occurred to me that my palette and my tolerance are often at odds with each other, especially when it comes to this city’s extravagant selection. I’ve been thinking about adopting your rule, don’t want to go back to old habits,” she looked up from the lounge, an expression he wasn’t familiar with briefly played out. What old habits? He’d have to find a delicate way to ask some other time.

“Fair enough,” he tried to put her back at ease again.

He sat down next to her, admiring how slim her dress appeared around her. It was the most feminine thing she had ever worn. The fur around the edges accentuated her curves, balancing out the dark cashmere fabric. The colours were a safe black and white, allowing her purple hair and dark blue eyeliner to pop just that much more than they would have normally. He had already complimented her many times but he knew she was not entirely comfortable with the attention.

“What do you think those two are talking about?” Venice nodded over at Lucia and Artoirel who were still sitting at the dining table, engrossed in one another’s company.

She moved over to smooth out the bunches in the front of her dress, revealing her luscious long legs as she repositioned. Showing off a bit of ankle would have been enough to set most hearts aflutter within the Holy See. The slit of her dress had no regard for such traditional boundaries as it went all the way up to the middle of her thigh. Said thighs were covered in skin-coloured stockings. How absolutely scandalous and considerably impractical in the cold climes of Ishgard. Perhaps she wasn’t so uncomfortable after all.

“I’m not certain but he’s probably about to ask her to dance,” he guessed. The selection playing from the orchestrion in the corner had comprised mostly of waltzes, a not-so subtle excuse to get close to one’s partner. He would not have resorted to such tactics but it wasn’t his dinner party.

“Does she know how?” she looked sceptical.

“Yes, I’ve taught her,” he assured her. She gave him a curious glance, what was that mean to be? Jealousy? Surprise? “Ballroom dancing is a very useful skill to have. You wouldn’t want to trip over your own feet in combat.”

“I can see that being useful,” she pondered his explanation, the look was still there. He reached out to touch her hand, to let her know that he wasn’t trying to imply that his second-in-command was anything more than a friend. She continued, “Now that I am starting to favour my paladin soulstone, I can appreciate the need for fanciful footwork. I’ve always meant to get around to it, to put that shield that Artoirel gave me to good use but didn’t really have the time to commit to learning something new. But now I have people that I care about, that I want to protect. I think it is a good fit after white mage. However, fighting with all that extra weight does not come naturally to me.”

“I’m sure we could practice together sometime though I suspect our techniques vary greatly from how you’ve been trained. To be honest, I’m not sure if I’d be very good at teaching, that was always something Haurchefant excelled at, he could get the best out of anyone.”

“You do that too, without even realising it. Your style is just a bit different, that’s all,” She placed her hand above his, the fingertips lightly brushing against his skin before settling down. How natural those small touches were starting to become between them.

“Does it look like they are getting up any time soon?” he asked rather suggestively, wondering if there was a small window of opportunity to kiss her. It would have been quite rude to do so while their companions were still figuring out if they even liked one another.

“Not really. Oh, this is a lovely song. Shall we?” She gently squeezed his hand, uncrossed her legs then stood up effortlessly in her high heels, looking rather dignified as she did so. He followed her lead, a wondrous sensation in its own right.

It quickly became apparent that Venice did not know how to dance, at least not to classical musical. However, that did not stop her from trying. He tried in vain to get their hands in the right positions as her legs kept wandering wherever they willed. Eventually, he placed a firm palm against her inner thigh, just above the knee. That got her attention, she looked down at him with genuine surprise, a hint of desire flashed through her eyes.

“Work with me, not against me,” he begged, not removing the hand until she nodded in agreement.

The lingering sensation of her stockings against his skin gave him pause, he would like to have done more if they were alone. He tried to push the compulsion of wanderlust away. She remained more compliant to his movements from that point on, allowing him to explore in a more restrained fashion. His focus was on the half-smile which she afforded him as he whirled her about, though his hands ever itched to follow the full curvature of her waist.

“Venice, I…” He wanted to confess the rude thoughts which kept slipping through him like water through a siv, he did not feel it was right to keep them to himself nor was he certain she would approve of them.

The church's warnings against the insidious nature of lust and temptation were so far beyond his grasp. Instead, his hands were full of the Warrior of Light’s writhing, muscular torso, her hands clasped together against the small of his upper back. Every time his arms moved, they pushed against hers and it felt as if her chest could not be any closer to his own.

“Sh, I want to feel the music for a moment,” she touched his lips gently with a forefinger, her other hand ramping a pattern of some kind against his shoulder.

“What are you doing?” he couldn’t help but ask, the pattern continued.

“I think I could play this. Not on the violin, a harp maybe. Yeah, it wouldn’t be too hard,” she began to hum softly along with the newest song that had come on, her fingers keeping the same rhythm as she memorised the notes.

“You can play music?”

“Aye, I used to be in a band in Garlemald. A long, long time ago,” she sounded weary by the mentioning of her past. To emphasise how little she wanted to talk about it, she lay her head against his chest. They remained relatively stationary, rocking slowly back and forth without going anywhere.

“You continue to surprise and impress.”

“That’s what I do.”

“What other instruments are you acquainted with?”

“Strings are my specialty, my fingers have always been quite nimble. Was never very good with woodwinds though I’ve been told I can blow a horn quite well,” she laughed softly, moving one hand close to where her head rested, he thought she might have been trying to gauge his rapidly accelerating heartbeat. By doing so, she only encouraged it to speed up that much more.

Time stood still, her other hand dropped from his in favour of cradling his shoulder, drawing him further in. He found her scent to be intoxicating: a subtle blend of olives and dates with a pinch of pomegranate, underlined by the smokiness that came with a freshly lit campfire, not an uncommon smell for an adventurer but combined with the rest he couldn’t quite get enough. She urged him to hold onto the small of her back while she leaned in, her fingertips lightly brushing the back of his neck as she made her move.

Though they had both been angling for it, they hadn’t quite indulged one another with a proper kiss prior to that evening. Despite the occasion when they had consumed far too much wine, riling one another up with lustful tales free of inhibitions, they had not actually fallen through with their plans. Rather, they had wandered to his bed and nearly fallen asleep right then and there without so much as a caress.

While he had enjoyed the sudden intimacy, it hadn’t quite gone as far as he would have liked. He was struggling to find the most adequate words to express himself, a problem that did not seem to affect him anywhere else in his daily political life, the idea of using touch to get the message across was wholly attractive. The mood was just as it ought to have been, he couldn’t have had planned it better.

The sound of shattered glass startled them both; the closer they got, the more likely fate was to intervene, just as the House Fortemps guard had done so many moons ago.

“Are they arguing?” he asked in disbelief, the raised voices from the adjoining room were unmistakable.

“I think she’s leaving. I’ll talk to her, you deal with Artoirel,” Venice decided all too quickly, pulling away before he could say anything else.

“What happened?” he asked a remarkably pale Artoirel who had joined him in the lounge room. The other man was distraught, practically shaking with anxiety.

“I don’t know, I asked her to dance but she refused. So I asked if she wanted to go somewhere more private and I could play the violin, thinking maybe she was feeling overcrowded. I think she thought it was a euphemism and stormed off in disgust, knocking the glass over by accident as she went. I didn’t mean to upset her, she got so quiet and withdrawn before she exploded in anger. What have I _done_?” Artoirel was genuinely remorseful.

“I offered to walk her home but she wanted to be left alone,” Venice said as she rejoined the pair of them. She didn’t seem as concerned as Artoirel did.

“What else did you do? Did you touch her too suddenly?”

“I might have touched her arm,” Artoirel offered thoughtfully, then amended, ”In a nice way!”

“Lucia has deep trust issues, it might have been enough.”

“She used to be a spy after all.”

“This has all gone horribly wrong.”

“And it's about to get worse, Emmanellain looks like he’s seen better days,” Aymeric indicated the newest arrival. A completely disheveled Emmanellain made his entrance, holding a bloodied handkerchief to his temple, trying desperately not to meet anyone’s gaze.

“Oh, _tonight_ was the dinner? I can’t catch a break can I?” Emmanellain said with utter disbelief.

“You look awful,” Artoirel chimed in.

“Thanks.”

“Have you been in a brawl, brother?”

“Something like that. Ran into the the Dzemael boys, they were gloating about taking advantage of some poor lowborn woman and I had already drank a lot so I wasn’t about to let them get away without bruising their precious egos.”

“Why were you out drinking?”

“Don’t want to talk about it. I’m going to bed,” he brushed the three of them off and stormed upstairs in a hurry.

“I’ll go check on him, he needs his head looked at properly,” Venice once again took off. Of all of them, she had the most experience at dressing wounds so it made sense. Nobody else was eager to deal with the grumpy lordling.

“What a mess. I’m glad father retired early tonight to miss all of this,” Artoirel sighed heavily while leaning against the lounge, sizing Aymeric up, “You seem to be doing quite well for yourself. It's about time the Fury blessed you. You do pretty much everything around here.”

“The Fury does not give me more weight than I can bear,” he responded stoically, taken slightly aback by the compliment.

“Still, I am glad to see you so happy for once. After everything you've been through, everything we’ve put you through.. You deserve better,” Artoirel looked up at him with admiration and a hint of something else, perhaps regret, his candour completely unexpected.

“As long as there is peace in Ishgard then I have achieved what I set out to do.”

“We both know you won’t be content with that alone. What about peace for yourself?”

“All in due time.”

An awkward silence fell over the pair as neither could think of what else to say.

“Mayhaps we should check on them?” Artoirel suggested.

Venice was carefully closing the door to Emmanellain’s bedchambers by the time they arrived, she shushed them and urged them to move towards one of the smaller sitting rooms down the hall.

“Please don’t disturb him, he needs his rest,” she began, looking tired as she sat against the lounge.

“Was he.. sobbing?”

“What did you do to him?”

“I cleaned him up, thankfully it was only couple of cuts and bruises that won’t take overly long to mend. Tried braiding his hair a bit, mostly to keep it from brushing against the wound on his cheek but he seemed to appreciate the attention. Once that was done, I encouraged him to get everything off his chest without worry of any judgements. He was hesitant at first about speaking his mind but once the floodgates were open.. I just sort of cradled him and let him get it all out, you know?”

“You _mothered_ him?” Artoirel blinked a few times, trying to comprehend. “Venice, there hasn’t been a maternal figure in this household for many summers.”

“Did I do something wrong?”

“No, no. It’s just.. we are very grateful to have you in the family,” he sounded like he was choking back on emotion. Venice got up and gave him a gentle hug, Aymeric was completely caught off guard by her warmth, not because she didn’t show it often but because he had never seen Artoirel embrace such behaviour openly. Of the three Fortemps sons, he was usually the coldest, most distant.

“What spurned him on tonight?”

“I can’t speak much about it, I told him I wouldn’t,” she said quietly, returning to her spot on the lounge. “The long and short of it is that he and Ser Laniaitte met to have a final conversation about their prospects. I say final because they both agreed to call it off before anyone got hurt again. It would seem they both had feelings but could not find a way to make it work out.”

“Poor guy, he really does love her.”

“He’ll recover in time, for now I ask that everyone be a bit.. Gentle with him. I know that’s asking a lot but he needs support,” she looked over at Artoirel who nodded, recently feeling burned himself. “Love can be complicated, to say the least.”

“We should call it a night before we disturb Lord Edmont,” Aymeric suggested, lightly touching Venice’s shoulder. There was nothing else they could do to salvage the evening.

“Why didn’t he stay with us for dinner?” she asked.

“He’s had a furious headache as of late. He claims it is a head cold but I think it’s a case of writer’s block,” Artoirel said, grateful to have something else to think about. In an attempt to hide his emotions, he eventually excused himself so that they would not bear witness to his weaknesses.

“Venice, shall we turn in early? We can try to do this another time when everyone is in higher spirits,” he tried again, she was looking around the room lost in thought.

“I think I should stay here. My family needs me right now. My brothers are both heartbroken and my father needs his muse. He’s been trying to get my help on an afterward for his memoirs for awhile now so I may as well make an effort.”

“I understand.” He didn’t, not really. He had no siblings and his father had brought him nothing but despair. But he could see that it was important to her, the compassion and concern that she held for her adoptive family was incredibly moving. There in her native element, she showed that her trueself was much more of a lover than a fighter. It made her immensely more attractive to him, if only he could take her back to his to show her how much.

“I’m sorry tonight hasn’t gone as planned,” she wrapped him up in a tight hug. While he appreciated the physical closeness, there was still no parting kiss on offer.

“It’s alright, we did the best we could,” he said, keeping the disappointment in his gut at bay.  His heart heavy, he turned to leave with Honoroit hot on his heels, apologising profusely all the way to the foyer. There would be other chances in the future, of that he had no doubt.

\---

His carefully laid plans to return home without disruption were quickly waylaid by an ambush. Instinctively, his hand fell to his side where the sword hilt should have been but weapons were no longer permitted within the Vault except under special circumstances. Before him stood an angry Count de Fortemps, his hands on his hips, a sour expression fixed across his face.

“Why did you not lend me support, one more endorsement would have been enough,” Lord Artoirel demanded, foregoing the usual pleasantries.

“Maintaining impartiality is paramount to my role. The Speaker must act as a catalyst for further discussion without altering the outcome,” Aymeric explained delicately, for what felt like the upteenth time. The lords of Ishgard were still accustomed to the old ways of power, they struggled to comprehend why he had so little of it.

“But you dismissed it entirely!”

“Your arguments were not strong enough, if you lost the debate you would have suffered more damage than if you had not started it.”

“This is too important to get bogged down in technicalities.”

“I agree which is why we should proceed with caution, within the full realm of the law regardless of how slow it may be. If we cannot demonstrate that the laws work then all is for naught.”

“I expected so much from you,” the disappointment in his voice was unmissable.

“You must see the danger in pushing too hard, too fast?” he implored. “If the Inquisition feels threatened, they _will_ fight back. And not on the House floor.”

“We cannot allow fear to stay our hand, didn’t you say that once?”

“Lord Artoirel, next time it may be you or one of yours who lies in the street, broken, within a pool of their own blood, wondering what you could have done differently, begging the Fury to release you from this madness,” the words came out like a torrent, he nearly regretted making the drastic analogy but he knew not of a better way to make the point about the dangers the count was courting.

“Lord Aymeric, must you be so dramatic?” Artoirel’s expression exhibited many emotions at once: shock, pity, anger. Eventually, he settled into the classic look of highborn indignation.

“I will do what I must to protect the ones I love, even if it means protecting them from themselves,” Aymeric persisted, unabashed.

“I’m trying to help you!”

 _Try harder_ is what he would have liked to have said.

“We are no longer teenagers arguing over petty things, the decision we make now affect hundreds of lives.”

“Then let us give the people what they deserve rather than deliver our short-term ambitions.”

The conversation with Artoirel de Fortemps had left him reeling, he wasn’t so much angry with him as sorely disappointed by his lack of foresight. His grievances with the Inquisition were well known and he was hardly the only head of a family to be targeted by the outdated institution. But that was no excuse for blind fanaticism, it was little different then how other factions had tried to force their demands upon their peers.

Some saw the wiping of the slate clean as an opportunity to take power for themselves rather than as a chance to create lasting, positive change, not that he suspected that was the count’s aim but others would certainly see it that way. Was Aymeric the only one who could see the various strands in the new tapestry of the republic, was that why they kept heaping more obligations upon his shoulders?

He watched as the count sauntered off to a flock of individuals who were eager to be graced by his presence. Not long after, he saw Ser Lucia enter the foyer, she gave him a modest salute and continued on towards Artoirel’s growing entourage. He was surprised to see the pair of them engaged in conversation after their last encounter and yet there she was, laughing at his crowd-pleasing jokes like all the rest.

With the unwelcome confrontation over, he could fallback on his original plan. He could draft up more amenable plans to tackle the thorny issue of the Inquisition’s future from the silence within his study. Or he could get around to reading one of the many languishing tomes awaiting his attention in the same room.

He recalled the decadent leather cover of a book Venice had acquired in Kugane: a collection of Thavnairian ballads retelling the entirety of Eorzean mythology through an Eastern lens. What a beautiful way to spend a lonesome evening, curled up by the fireplace with a glass of red and a good read, he was very much looking forward to it.

Once more, his plans were dashed.

“Good evening, my lord,” a timid voice coming from a man in a fanciful hat addressed him.

“Lord Francel, what a pleasant surprise. It is always good to see you in the capital,” he greeted his old copatriot. Lord Francel de Haillenarte had been a close friend of Lord Haurchefant’s. Having taken his death harder than most, he had elected to spend his time away from his fellow noblemen in favour of keeping a quiet vigil near the garrison. His aloofness was often confused for snobbery but Aymeric knew better.

“It has been a long time coming. Most people were unaware that I was gone, shows what little impact I had around here,” the younger man went slightly flush, embarrassed by the sudden attention.

“On the contrary, we have sorely missed your soothing presence,” Aymeric said with the utmost honesty. “Or at least, _I_ have.”

“You’ve always known exactly what to say to people, if I were even a quarter the politician you are..” Francel trailed off and sighed. “I don’t think I’d have the stomach for it. Are they always so vicious in the chamber?”

“They were rather tame today but the mood can shift depending on the topics at hand.”

“Can I ask for your assistance with a matter I wish to present to the House soon?” he blurted out rather forthright. “I don’t have many friends here and neither of my siblings is adept at this sort of art.”

Normally that would be the point in the conversation that Aymeric would have to politely decline on account of his already laden schedule but Francel was sincere and the Fury knew when he’d be in the city again.

“Of course. What did you have in mind?”

“A war memorial to honour everyone, highborn and lowborn alike, that fought in the Dragonsong War, the entire thousand year legacy of it. Every single name inscribed for eternity, so that future generations may never forget,” Francel said, each word boosting his confidence a tiny bit more. It would make for a marvelous gesture and he knew it. Finding the financing was going to be the hard part, the republic was already stretched thin on numerous projects, not least of which were some that had yet to be started for which Aymeric had his own proposals to sort out.

“A brilliant idea. I would love to discuss it further at your earliest convenience,” he commended the lordling, clapping his hands together for emphasis. He almost wished it had been his own idea.

“Excellent, for now I must congratulate Lord Artoirel on his impassioned speech tonight. Mayhaps we can reconvene another time.”

He watched as Lord Francel drifted off to the throng of other noblemen then finally made his way towards the exit, too relieved to be upset about Artoirel’s growing support base.

\---

The gardens around the Hoplon were well-maintained if not a bit smaller than Aymeric remembered from his youth. When he was about twelve summers old, it had seemed like an unwieldy jungle, the perfect place for young children playing at soldiers to congregate amongst themselves. The guards would always shoo them away but that wouldn’t deter the more persistent among them. The orphans in particular were stubborn about giving up anything they deemed to be theirs.

It was one of the few spots that allowed for the mixing of social class, for children didn’t care about politics. Well, most didn’t. Those of the High Houses knew what was expected of them. Nonetheless, the boys of House Fortemps were often coerced into spending time with him, though they treated him no differently than the lowborn orphan they thought him to be, which was fine because explaining his family situation was the last thing he wanted to do.

Haurchefant was different, he always had been.

The boys often took to the game of knights versus dragons but in truth it usually turned into bastards versus lordlings. Back then, Aymeric was the smallest of the four of them which made it all that much more difficult to earn Emmanellain and Artoirel’s respect. They rarely played by the established rules and didn’t much care to be involved unless they had some sort of advantage. They all had their unique talents: Aymeric was clever, Haurchefant was brave, Emmanellain was aggressive, Artoirel was patient.

They had taken to recreating sword fights they had seen in various tournaments using makeshift wooden training swords that they had crafted themselves out of whatever they could find lying about. Each would modify their own equipment within reason. But one day the lordlings had favoured hard, metal versions leaving the other two at a gross disadvantage.

“You bloody cheats!” Haurchefant declared, his long blue hair falling in his face every time he swung his own sword.

“Now, now brother. You could have done the same but chose not to,” Emmanellain chided him, pretending to parry his advance. He fell behind his older brother who favoured the two-handed variant and waited for Haurchefant to make his move.

“Mayhaps if you spent more time around the forge instead of getting lost in the Brume, you would learn something of value,” Artoirel added.

“When father finds out where you’ve been lurking during your so-called study time, he will be quite displeased,” Haurchefant quipped.

Aymeric knew better than to interfere when the three of them were at each other so he kept quiet, watching their movements, trying to judge how well the lordlings could utilise their new toys. More weight meant slower swings, the counter-balances weren’t accounted for in their design. It would be easy to strike when their power was spent.

After awhile, they got bored of exchanging insults. Emmanellain eventually relented to trade his longsword with Haurchefant so that the two sides would remain as even as possible. Artoirel was too proud of his creation to give it up. They continued with their mock-battles well past sunset.

Despite the gesture of good faith, Emmanellain was quick to grab the metal claymore off the ground once it had been knocked loose by a well-timed shield block from Haurchefant. Unable to control the bulky weapon’s momentum, Emmanellain tried to knock over Aymeric who was the most exposed at the time.

Haurchefant called out over his shield, “Look out!” but he needn’t have bothered.

Aymeric knew exactly what to do, using his short stature compared to his opponent to maximum effect. He dropped to his knees, the stones on the edge of the garden providing little comfort, the blade soared harmlessly overhead. It kept going until it got stuck against Artoirel’s unsuspecting arm, ruining the entire side of his tunic as the stitching was cut loose. He cried out with distress and it was anyone’s guess how he had not drawn the attention of the nearest guard.

“You bloody buffoon!” This is my writing hand,” Artoirel admonished his brother who had gone pale with fear.

Aymeric was tempted to make a crude joke about the pen being mightier than the sword but the panicked look on Haurchefant’s face was enough to belay the humorous remark.

“What do we do?” Emmanellain asked.

“We can’t take him home like that, I think he’s bleeding..”

“If I die, bury me with my sword.”

“Don’t be so dramatic, it’s barely a paper cut.”

“This is all Aymeric’s fault.”

“Like hells it is.”

“Well, you don’t want to blame him. If you do, father will know we’ve gone against his wishes.”

“Oh yeah..”

“I’ll take responsibility, say you swung at me,” Haurchefant decided pragmatically. It was easier for the truesons to swallow, he often got into trouble and they would be free of guilt.

“No! You can’t do that, I can own up to my own mistakes,” Aymeric protested, he wouldn’t have anyone lie on his behalf, least of all his only friend. But it did put the Fortemps boys in a bind, for Edmont had warned them multiple times to not play with someone as controversial as Aymeric. He barely allowed them to associate with any of the lowborn.

“Look, we really have to do something. He really is bleeding a lot,” Emmanellain pointed out.

“Take him to the infirmary. Say it was an accident, which it was, and try not to answer any more questions,” Aymeric suggested, he knew the knights at the barracks well enough, they would help a child in distress before worrying too much about how they had came to be in the unlucky situation.

“We’ll be late for dinner,” Artoirel whined.

“Should have thought about that earlier. Now let’s be away and hope Haurchefant can cover for our absence,” the younger brother said, carrying his wounded brother over his shoulder.

“Who do you think will be angrier: Lord Edmont or your mother?” Aymeric asked, more for calming Haurchefant down than his own curiosity.

“You don’t know how good you have it. No parents to judge your every action.”

“That may be but the barracks aren’t exactly cozy. Nobody notices me unless they can make use of me somehow. Your family cares about you, even if they don’t always show it.”

“Do you think we’ll ever be real knights?”

“Of course we will, though I don’t know whether we’ll serve together. You’ll be expected to serve your house but I have no house. Not yet.”

Before they could continue their conversation, there was a loud, bellowing noise echoing throughout the Pillars.

“Haurchefant!” Lord Edmont called, sounding like he was in a foul mood.

“You should go. Even if he doesn’t find out what has happened, he won’t be happy to see you,” Haurchefant warned his friend.

“You’re late for dinner again, what have I told you about playing out here in the streets?” Edmont was already upon them. “And what is _he_ doing here! Wherever he goes, trouble is not far behind. He will bring only ruin to Ishgard.”

“You can’t talk to him like that!” Haurchefant said loudly, standing between them so that he was physically shielding Aymeric from his father’s wrath. Edmont looked to argue then changed his mind. Haurchefant pressed on, wooden shield out, “Are we not all brothers and sisters of Ishgard?”

“Speaking of siblings, where are your brothers now?”

“They went to the Crozier to pick up some things for mother,” Haurchefant lied with a straight face. It must have hurt to refer to his step-mother in such an affectionate tone.

“Bless them. Come, your mother will be worried. And you should not disobey me again.”

“I bet she isn’t,” Haurchefant said under his breath.

“What was that?”

“Nothing father,” he gave Aymeric an apologetic look then followed after him, probably trying to think of how to stall both parents over the dinner table.

Aymeric was left alone as he so often was, the burning hatred Edmont had for him was almost too much to bear. But there was Haurchefant, always ready to take the fall, to protect the weak, to serve as was a knight’s duty. The pair of them were often thrust against the rest of the world but at the end of the day, Haurchefant had a warm home to go to whereas he only had ambivalent knights to complain about him underfoot.

Some day things might change, with knights like Lord Haurchefant in charge; some day Ishgard would be a better place.

\---

He didn’t know when or how Lord Edmont had learned the truth, for he was certain that is why he gazed upon a young boy with fear and contempt in his eyes. Most did not care exactly who his father was, acknowledging that he was the product of sin was enough to dismiss him as insignificant. On the other hand, the count of one of the four High Houses saw him as a threat to the natural order of things, an aberration that would only bring destruction if given the opportunity.

The other nobles were merely pretending to know of his relation to Archbishop Thordan VII so that they could have something to base their cruel gossip upon. It made people feel better about themselves when they could put down somebody else, especially someone who could not possibly fight back. Their scornful stares and scathing judgement, the bleak outlooks for his future, had only served to drive him that much harder to prove his worth. The Fury had not forsaken him and he would not forsake Her.

Things had changed dramatically since then. Edmont’s attitudes had long evolved to support his progressive vision, seemingly forgetting his past transgressions. He could hardly fault him for changing his opinions, he was a complicated man who had lost both of the women he loved as well as a son that he should not have had himself. There was room for redemption, that had been the entire point of ending the war.

Aymeric turned his attention away from the garden and the bitter memories then caught the sound of hushed whispers from the level below.

Though the voices came from a pair of men on the lower level, he could not discern their precise location, he assumed they were meeting within the concealed shadows of one of the archways, trying their best not to be seen or heard. It was late but not late enough that foot traffic through the gardens would be out of the ordinary. He looked about for the nearest patrolling guard, the lack of which sent the hairs aback his neck on high alert.

Carefully, he leaned in as close as he dared from behind the foliage of one of the taller hedges, catching only snippets of the illicit transaction. An absent guard, Lucia not on duty as she should have been, rumours of bribery, thoughts to address when he could afford to do so. The sound of jingling coins shuffled between greedy hands, a low grumbled warning about keeping things quiet. One man walked away, an Elezen judging by his swaggering gait, clothing too dark and bulky to tell much else. He waited for the other to emerge but instead heard someone approaching his position from the same level, he would have spun around with sword out if it were with him.

A startled Lord Francel froze in place, “Is something amiss?”

“I’m not sure yet, keep your voice down..” before he could finish, he heard the twang of a loosened arrow, the distance of the draw too hard to gauge, his well-honed battle senses fully triggered. “Get down!” he moved toward Francel to shield him, propelled by instinct and adrenaline.

Between them, the arrow lodged with its full force into the wooden door of an unused garden shed, neither of them reacted at first, expecting another volley to follow the first. There was no follow-up attack. Nonetheless, he made certain that Francel’s body was safely behind his own while he tried to determine the arrow’s trajectory of origin. The surrounding buildings in that section of the Pillars were all tremendously tall, it could have been shot down from any one of them. The wind stirred, whoever the archer had been knew how to account for changing conditions, the height of the arrowhead could easily have been a fatal blow for either man.

“There’s something attached to the shaft,” Francel pointed, his voice meek, shaking with fright.

Aymeric reached up to pull the arrow loose. Indeed, a small scroll of parchment had been tied purposely to the nondescript shaft, there were no other indicators as to where the arrow had came from. All things considered, it was as generic as any arrow could possibly be in terms of shape and material.

He unrolled the parchment and silently read over its meager message: “Look the other way”, it said in large, blocky letters. Again he looked around to try and determine what vector the arrow had flown at but it was simply too dark to tell.

“I think it’s a warning, the danger has passed for now,” he said in the calmest voice he could manage for both their benefits. He was sure he had been the intended target, not that knowing that put him at any more ease. Someone else had been watching the transaction that he had witnessed and did not wish for interference, either they were in on it or they were a mysterious third party. Just what had he stumbled across? “Are you alright, Lord Francel?”

“Fine, fine. I was a bit late leaving, got caught up talking to one of the committees, what a mistake that turned out to be!”

“Let me escort you home from here, this does not bode well,” he tried helping Francel back to his feet, the other man nodded in appreciation.

“Perhaps you are free to go over my proposal tonight,” he offered with a half-hearted smile. “You should at least stay long enough to try one of Lani’s famous heaven lemon tarts, they are absolutely divine.”

On the way to Haillenarte Manor, they stopped so that Aymeric could speak with one of the guards beginning her rounds for the night.

“Are you familiar with the knight whose shift comes before yours?” he asked the helmeted Temple Knight. He tried to keep the arrow out of sight while making his enquiries.

“No, ser. Our rotation changes every night,” she said truthfully.

“You’ve not seen anything strange then?”

“No. Should I have?”

“There is an ominous wind blowing tonight. Please take note of anything that is out of place, even should it seem insignificant. I expect a thorough report when you are done. Remain vigilant, may the Fury keep you.”

The knight tilted her head with curiosity but said nothing more to her commander. They exchanged salutes then went their separate ways.

“Why didn’t you mention what happened?” Francel asked when they were out of earshot.

Aymeric shook his head, “It’s a very odd feeling that I cannot place, but I do not know who to trust. One of my knight’s failed to perform their duty tonight, how can I be sure we have not been compromised in some way?” He thought of Hilda’s suspicions that someone was leaking information.

He took up Francel’s offer if only to make sure that the lord would not speak of the night’s events until more information could be uncovered. For his part, the lord helped him ensure the integrity of the arrow by wrapping it in a piece of clean linen so that it could be carried free of blemishing any potential fingerprints or other revealing marks that might show up in a proper examination.

Just as he was beginning to think the worst was over, a house guard delivered some troubling news from the Crozier: apparently there had been a breaking-and-entering that went awry, leaving a shop owner dead.

His temper was beginning to flare, could nothing go right that night? Still bereft of his sword and armour, he grudgingly made his way to the scene.

“Ser Handeloup, what a relief to see you here,” he greeted his tired colleague who was in civilian dress.

“Aye, not how I intended to spend my night off.”

“Ser Lucia should be on duty by now, I saw her earlier but assumed you two had swapped times again,” he pondered the implications.

“I’m only here because my family home is a couple of streets over,” Handeloup pointed out, sounding annoyed that he had to protect his family in his off-hours as well.

“I’m sorry to burden you like this, Lucia should be the one overseeing this case. Could you catalogue everything so that we can go over it tomorrow when we’re both more awake?”

“I’ll see to it,” he nodded to the arrow that the lord commander still held close, “What’s that?”

“Evidence, I hope. Someone took a shot at me tonight.”

“What, again?” Handeloup laughed with grim humour, he had always enjoyed his ability to keep matters light.

“Sadly, I was not alone. I’ve kindly asked Lord Francel to remain silent on the matter until we can figure out what in the Seven Hells is going on,” he yawned involuntarily, anger and exhaustion threatening to overtake him.  All he wanted was to go home without anybody else being accosted, was that so much to ask for.

“This situation is under control, my lord,” Handeloup assured him. Music to his ears.

\---

He looked over the picture emerging against the bulletin board: multiple coloured threads linking a numerous amount of related intel, suspects, potential motives, assumed associations, known information, unknowns that needed filling in, a cornucopia of a mess. His larger plans for integrating Ishgard into the Alliance’s mainstay operations would have to be put on hold until his own house could be put back into order.

If they didn’t start wrapping up cases fast enough, it would not be long before the head inquisitor burst into his office, unceremoniously demanding his resignation. He could not allow local institutional rivalries to stymy the progress he had made nor could he continue to make headway in that direction with such an encroaching workload.

He drummed his fingers against the tabletop, hoping for a hit of inspiration to strike while various reports were read aloud, their respective notes added to the board. With such limited resources, he wished he could have bequeathed some of the tasks to the Inquisition, it would keep them occupied while allowing his knights to do what they did best. Perhaps there was merit in that. As long as the foreign cases were kept away from the heretic-seekers, they could be made to pull their weight for once.

Local affairs could be handled by Muscadain’s team, the lengthy cases could be handled by Venice, the rest would be divided amongst his officers. The most recent crop of recruits could be put to effective use right away while paired off with the Watch which could do with the experience themselves; slowly, all the pieces were coming together.

Nothing was insurmountable as long as he took his time to find meaningful solutions, there were no mad conspiracies or strange happenings to get worked up over, just more crime than usual, a direct consequence of joining the larger world. The last thought struck him as something the Inquisition had been saying since the end of the war, he did not mean to prove them right. If he could help it, he would avoid conflict with them altogether, he had no desire to step foot in the inquisition chamber ever again.

The war room drifted away as dark thoughts resurfaced, his last confrontation with the elite knights of the Heavens’ Ward, the symbols of hope that Ishgardian children held in the highest regard. Nothing but power-hungry zealots devoid of honour or reason, corruptors of the faith, murderers, tormentors. He would not forget the sadistic sneer that Ser Zephirin had shown that day, displaying his true colours all too late, nor could he forget the smell of charred flesh, the harrowing screams, the searing pain..

“My lord?” Ser Lucia gently called out to him, “Are you alright?”

“Honestly? This is all a bit overwhelming,” he said, acknowledging her with a fatigued nod.

“Aye, it is,” she agreed, looking back at the bulletin board, not a spare space left upon it. The room was empty save for the two of them. “But it’s nothing we can’t handle. There is nought else to do tonight, I can wrap things up here. Why don’t you go home and get some rest?”

For a moment, her green eyes shimmered like Venice’s, he tried to remember the last time that the two of them had had a friendly chat. She had been so distracted by other matters, as had he. She was still important to him even if their paths did not cross as often as they used to.

“Thank you, Lucia, I think that is exactly what I need now.”

\---

There were very few luxuries which Aymeric had spent his wealth upon, the claw-footed tub with the gradual reclining sides was one of them. As far as he was concerned, it was a vital necessity for maintaining his mental well-being; its relaxing properties utilised during periods of great stress, of which there were many, was a considerable bonus. Unlike other nobles, he did not require constant pampering, there weren’t enough bells in the day and he had not been brought up a world of privilege like most of his peers.

Rather than rely on others, he saw to most things on his own, finding the lengthy, menial ritual of preparing the water to be an inviting task that did not tax his concentration as everything else seemed to. He left the dull administrative tasks to his handful of servants, the sort of things that could be done in his absence. For that particular evening, he wanted to be free of all distractions. Foregoing the scented oils and soaps in favour of the scalding hot temperature, he settled in for a lengthy time alone with his thoughts, a plethora of topics each jostling for his focus.

He shifted his attention away from the long list of potential nefarious elements and tried to count off the allies he had accumulated, grimly realising that the current pickings were quite slim. Hilda’s clumsiness had struck at the worst time, Lucia was trying to love again after a tumultuous past, Handeloup had his own family to attend to, Artoirel was too focused on retribution to see the larger picture, Estinien had left Ishgard behind to deal with his own issues, Venice was doing whatever a Warrior of Light needed to do. Even Lord Edmont seemed too distracted with shoring up his legacy to lend him an ear.

For the first time in a long while, he realised that the people he had come to rely on had their own lives and problems to contend with. Whereas for him, safekeeping Ishgard _was_ his life. It was the choice he had made but he was beginning to wonder at what point was he in too deep, he couldn’t very well carry his duty out alone. Had he not told Venice not to push herself too hard?

A pang of guilt swept over him. When had he allowed himself to depend so strongly on one individual. To be fair, he had inherited more responsibility since she had come into his life, willingly or not, it was hardly her fault that he was struggling to cope. He could certainly make do without her but he no longer wanted to do things as he had once done before needing her help.

He leaned back and let the water soak further into his weary body, how everyone liked to point out how young and virile he was, as if that had any bearing on his ability to command. He didn’t feel particularly spritely, worried about mountains of paperwork, deadlines, meetings, controlling a spate of seemingly unconnected crimes across his jurisdiction, trying to remember what the agenda from the last Council session had been, and so forth.

He closed his eyes and tried to recall what it felt like to get a single night of decent rest, wondering what his mind may conjure up if he could truly pursue what he wished. What was it he had asked Venice over their first dinner: what did she want for herself? He knew exactly what his answer would have been had she been given the opportunity to throw it back to him.

He couldn’t think of anything else besides her wicked grin, the one she had flashed him after landing the final blow into Nidhogg’s scaley corpse. Sure she had been worried for Estinien, and by extension Alphinaud, but she knew the hard part was over. She had had a similar look about her in Ala Mhigo, minus the worry. While the stakes weren’t quite as personal then, she had appeared to be more relieved than triumphant.

When their eyes had met in the Menagerie, he could have sworn she wanted something from him. Perhaps she had wanted him to scoop her up and return her home so that she could wait out for the next crisis, she had not told him off for making the suggestion. That was no reason to presume anything, doing so would only succeed in getting his hopes up.

And his hopes were pathetically low that evening. His position often left him internally isolated but he was dealing with a new kind of ache: he was in love, that much was plain, and he missed her terribly, even if the feeling was not to be reciprocated. He didn’t need a Warrior of Light to swoop in and solve all his problems, he needed companionship.

_Venice, I need you here, it’s all falling apart without you._

 ---

The bored guard offered no resistance, nearly doubling over as he bowed and let him pass. Sometimes a show of rank was useful. The dark blue dress uniform adorned with numerous polished medals, the tell-tale blue rank sash, the confidence within his stride were enough to demonstrate his important status without him having to resort to stressing his quite strained voice, a result of the numerous speeches he had been forced to provide earlier in the day. He did not make a habit of throwing his weight around if he did not have to but he was blissfully grateful for a wordless confrontation.

On the other side of the steely, industrial door which still bore the interlocked symbol of the Garlean Empire at its top, he was by greeted by silence. He let out a quietly held breath, trying to let himself absorb the respite. Free of mundane conversations with everyone who desired to be seen in his elevating presence, he could finally hear his own thoughts again.

The sun was at the beginning of its descent towards the horizon, throwing long shadows behind the various trees which were dotted around the meticulous gardens. He barely recognised any of the desert-friendly foliage, there were no proud pines or firs, no brightly reaching birches, not a single plant worthy of being used in the construction of hardy siege weapons.

Ala Mhigo was full of dust, bleak browns, spindly trees with small leaves, more flowers in the red spectrum rather than the blue, and very little animal life beyond the nuisance of wasps and mites. But despite its strangeness, it was a recently freed nation, it’s poor people currently celebrating their deliverance from oppression, a victory his own nation had recently revelled in itself.

He took great relief in placing the celebrants behind him, a warm wind encouraged him away from the entry way, the balmy temperature making him glad for the lack of his usual armour and woolen cloak. Slowly, he made his way towards what he envisioned had been the location of the former ruler’s timely demise. In hindsight, he wished he had been present for the final confrontation, not only to be assured of the Warrior of Light’s safety but also so that he would know the final fate of the Eyes which had held the responsibility of igniting the entire conflict.

The Eyes of Nidhogg had caused enough damage in his lifetime, the duty of ensuring they no longer continued to do so fell to the Azure Dragoon, which at the time was one of his many roles. So long as Estinien and Venice were not serving in the same capacity, somebody had to carry the mantle of Ishgard’s staunchest protector. Moreover, he felt personally responsible for ordering the Eyes’ destruction, or at least that had been the expected outcome.

He had had cursory glances at the fertile grounds previously but nothing that fully satisfied his curiosity. The Eyes had to have reappeared after Shinryu’s defeat, they were a catalyst of aether and as such would not have been consumed themselves. And yet they were nowhere to be found. Worse than throwing them into the endless abyss which should have been the end of it, was not knowing where they currently were.

Both Eyes were reservoirs of immense power, should they be spirited away by the Garleans or any other undesirable element they could be used for evil once more. They were Ishgard’s hubris, no other nation or people should find themselves at their mercy. He continued his slow search of the tall grasses and fragrant wildflowers, losing patience with each step that he took.

A sweet-sounding melody greeted his unsuspecting ears, temporarily tearing his attention away from the unholy relics which could decide the fates of far too many. At first, the voice had a homogenous quality which he did not recognise. It was like listening to the siren call of a La Noscean songbird, mesmerising and moving. The humming turned into vocals, he knew the northern accent almost right away. Both sad and beautiful, like the woman who gave the words form.

He had not heard the words before but the notes were familiar, a slight chill fell over him as he followed the music to its source. Laying amongst the flowers was a purple-haired Highlander wearing a clean white and grey Scion uniform, the one he knew she hated wearing due to the short skirt and long stockings. In most of his time of knowing her, Venice typically favoured masculine or gender-neutral clothing. When she did don a skirt, it was often long or in some fashion classy enough to protect her modesty, leaving him to often wonder about the shape beneath.

She stopped her song as soon she lied eyes upon him but she made no effort to get up. Instead, he knelt down to her level.

“Don’t let me interrupt you,” he said gently.

“Tired of all the small talk already?” she asked casually.

“Something like that. I thought to take an interlude from public diplomacy to pursue a more private matter: the reclamation of the Eyes.”

“Still no luck? I wish I could be of more help.”

“It’s alright, I’m sure they’ll turn up when we least want them to,” he tried not to sound too pessimistic about the likely prospect. “What brings you away from the elated crowds?”

“Not good with large groups, withstanding, I sought solitude.”

“If you don’t mind my saying so, you sounded rather melancholy. Is everything alright? Are you not satisfied with your victory?”

“It’s hardly my victory alone, but no. This is a temporary respite at best, we both know this. As for my mood, I find myself thinking about all the souls who have been lost along the way.”

He got the sense that she was not referring to their recent campaign. The song’s notes played out again in his mind, they were the same as the song used to call forth Hraesvelgr in the Churning Mists. She looked away from him and sighed. He reached out to squeeze her shoulder, waiting to see if she would say more, giving her the space she needed without pressuring her further. She touched his hand with her own and squeezed back.

“Ysayle was broken, like Estinien, but in a different way. To watch her go through the shattering of her faith was the most heartbreaking thing I’ve ever done. She was a sister to me, a kindred spirit, she should have been the Warrior of Light. I miss her so much,” her voice grew shaky as she tried to keep tears at bay.

“When our history is rewritten, I will ensure she is not forgotten. I only wish I could have spent more time around her,” he meant it, the way Venice described her with reverence made it clear that Ysayle had been a misunderstood woman.

“Your actions have given her what she yearned for most. You finished what she started. Always picking up the pieces left behind by everyone else.”

“I’m trying my best.”

“I’m just tired. Tired of the endless cycle of death, the losses, the setbacks, the short-lived celebrations, everything. Sometimes I contemplate retiring.”

“You are not alone, I’m still here.”

“So you are. But Ysayle and the rest deserved better. Zenos is a mere consolation prize, it’s Varis’ head that I want. My original mission was the toppling of the Garlean Empire, it seems nothing has changed. We have to go further, the war continues until there is no longer an Emperor.”

“I will aide you in the conquest. And when it is all said and done, we shall return home together where you may rest as long as it pleases you.”

She leaned over to kiss the hand which still rested against her shoulder. He took his cue, shifting his position from kneeling to laying down beside her. She pulled closer, seeking the safety and comfort that only he could provide. Large, emerald eyes were full of anticipation, longing to be reminded of what peace should feel like. The hero of the realm, still a mortal woman that needed to be cared for herself. He was more than happy to oblige, honoured that she would choose him to be the one she should reveal everything to. His long arms granted her sanctuary, her legs pushing their way between his, eager to be fully enveloped by his taller stature.

The heat of the early evening faded away when she kissed him, light little nips at first until she pressed on deliberately with her luscious lips, her chest heaving slightly against his as her breathing slowed. He tried unsuccessfully to tuck the loose strands of her hair behind her small, Hyuran ears, letting her dictate their ongoing course. She broke away after leaving a lingering nibble upon his upper lip, a sigh escaping from her as she moved to lay her head against his chest. He continued to hold her close, rubbing her shoulder gently as he allowed himself to drift off in her warm embrace.

When he opened his eyes again, the scene had shifted. While the flowers were still crimson and abundant, the chill in the air was much more accomodating, pleasant and crisp, typical of an Ishgardian afternoon. The noise of slowly flowing water denoted a fountain nearby. He was standing at one end of the Vault’s upper courtyard, in his usual attire; she was sitting against the lip of an ornate fountain wearing one of her typical Allagan-inspired outfits, fresh from one adventure or another. The sadness in her eyes was replaced with worry as she watched him pace back and forth.

“Sometimes it’s too much,” he continued, his hands clasped behind his back as he felt the need to keep moving. He was restless, unsettled, seeking clarity after being tasked with making another major decision. “I can’t be right every time and yet they all expect me to be. They’ve put me on a pedestal, Venice, at some point I will be unable to meet their lofty standards. Every move I make has to take the possibility of failure into account because nobody else will be able to compensate for my shortcomings.

Plans, decisions, contingencies, and we’re not even at war any more. I must be on the move, constantly, while other members of the House can take their time safe in the knowledge that if they get it wrong, I will make it right. Ishgard has no king but the way they all look at me, every day, you would be forgiven for thinking that isn’t true.

I have only my own previous successes to blame, this wasn’t entirely the life I hoped to have once reform began to be commonplace. I suppose I never stopped to consider where I would land when the dust was settled.”

“What can I do to help?” she enquired as if it was the obvious solution to his many dilemmas.

“You can be you, be here when it is convenient to do so. Your presence is enough. Knowing that you are well, that is one less worry on my mind. I would fight a thousand wars to see your smile. You give me something else to aspire towards.”

“Am I not disrupting your time set aside for meditation and prayer?” she waved her hand about. While it was true not many had access to that particular section of the Vault, he did not find her presence unwelcome in the slightest.

“I only pray for guidance, to know if the path I am on will advance my cause. The Fury does not answer directly, sometimes She throws more challenges at me rather than offering the knowledge I need. You are.. real, here, solid. Does that make sense?”

“You really need a break from everything. No one man should have to perform the long list of duties that you are currently ascribed to.” The concern was still readily apparent in her glance.

“You worry if I have overextended myself by being both the Lord Speaker and the Lord Commander.”

“Maybe? Only you know your limits.”

“The Inquisition wonders the same, making my job that much harder as of late. I am sure they are behind the recent unrest, in one way or another, trying to force me to choose one role or fail at both.”

“Aren’t they old news by now?”

“It’s..complicated. They should play an integral role in rooting out corruption in the church but they were given more power in the past than they should have had. It’s a delicate balance, shifting power from one side to another.”

“They failed miserably to stop Thordan from consorting with the Ascians. How can they remain relevant after all that?”

He didn’t want to argue with her, the last thing he wanted was to be at odds with the woman he admired most. He moved towards the fountain to sit beside her. She moved over, giving him room to make sure his pristine cloak would remain as such. He didn’t know why he felt compelled to do so but he needed to be as close as possible so he rested his head in her lap. She smiled down at him, one arm draped across his waist as he found the right angle for his back to rest against the narrow surface.

Her other hand hand came up to play with his hair, brushing the curls out of his face, occasionally running her fingertips along the sensitive spot behind his ears. Peace. The garden of contemplation finally felt true to its name. No more words were shared, no judgements passed. The gentle touches, the warmth of her body, the scent of the nearby rose bushes, the trickling water, it all lulled him back to sleep, his cares washed away.

The next time he opened his eyes, they were in the Vault’s decorated main hall, the room packed with jubilant citizens and knights wearing their most polished armour. It was a knighting ceremony and Venice was waiting her turn. He could feel Hrunting’s lightweight grip against his palm, not the sort of blade he’d prefer to use in battle but still a national treasure with hundreds of years of history behind it.

She knelt before him as all the other newly knighted had done, the traditional stance for the quick ritual as it had always been done. He was stricken by the sight, horrified that she would adopt the posture of subjugation for anyone, let alone for him. He tried not to watch too closely as muscle memory motioned the sword’s tip delicately across her shoulders, the recitation equally memorised and bestowed upon her.

When she rose, he broke protocol and helped her back to her feet, her gauntlets were heavy and unblemished like those of her peers. He did not immediately let go, someone took Hrunting away from his outstretched grasp to put it away for the next occasion. The room froze, all eyes upon the Lord Commander and Ishgard’s newest Temple Knight.

She watched him carefully, her eyes big and busting with emotions, joyful tears gathering at the edges. How happy she was, how proud to finally achieve the the title she actually wanted for herself, to earn it the proper way, to convert to Halone’s will. What a long and fulfilling journey it had been, as if slaying Nidhogg was not enough. The heretic, the outsider, stood as a true daughter of Ishgard, ready to defend her city to the last dying breath.

Not only that, but she had resigned herself to take his orders, swearing her loyalty not only to Halone but to her commanding officer as well. He too was beset by a wide range of emotions, it was overwhelming to conceive that she would make herself beholden to him. After everything they had been through together, perhaps her trust had grown along the way.

They had to do something, he had already broken the rules so he saw no harm in going further. He kissed her with one bold move, his free arm reaching around to hold her close. The room erupted with gasps at first until she kissed back, her own arms pulling at his shoulders. The people of Ishgard cheered on the couple when they finally tore themselves away from each other, clapping and shouting their unflinching support. He was certain he was blushing, she certainly was.

“I know how much this means to you,” he said, proud and boastful. She couldn't find her words, the wide grin said it all. “Venice, may this be the last time you kneel before me, please. I will have us standing shoulder to shoulder from now on.”

She nodded, “Thank you so much. I’ve longed to belong to something greater than myself. This is all I’ve ever wanted. I couldn’t get this far without you,” the tears streamed down her cheeks, he tried to kiss them away. “Ishgard is everything to me. You are everything to me.”

“I wouldn’t have gotten this far without you either. May the Fury continue to bless our union.”

She made to lean against him again, clumsily so in her bulky chainmail, he didn’t feel particularly motivated to dissuade her from doing so. He kissed her forehead then the scene shifted for the final time.

“You’re a good man not because you want to be seen as one but because of the choices you make,” she continued on, as if they had been conversing for quite awhile.

They were laying intertwined in his bedchamber, not a stitch of clothing covered either of their bodies. Despite the lustful temptation of being close to one’s naked beloved, they managed to engage in a robust discussion as if they were sitting across from one another at the dining table. The view he had was a bit more intoxicating than that of one of her low-cut, fancy dresses, however.

She sat atop the narrowest section of his lower torso, just above where the scar began, her knees relaxed but sturdy against his sides. He was running his fingers along her back and shoulders, designing spiralled patterns as he explored her supple skin. He had once been self-conscious about the contrast in their skintones, she was an enticing caramel while his own vanilla seemed bland in comparison. It was the difference between where each had grown up.

Their physical differences hardly stopped there, as a Highlander she had more muscle mass, more curves to wander. Additionally, he knew her to have strong upper arm strength due to all the weapons she was competent at utilising in any situation. But as he continued to rub her shoulders, he noted how much her overall form resembled a lancer’s physique, surprising given her tendency to rely on magic. Though he had spent much of his life learning the art of the sword, she could easily outmatch him in a direct contest of brute strength.

The thought was thrilling, sending a shiver down him as he considered what such a duel might look like. He wouldn’t mind testing the limits of her Garlean heritage, to see her muscles clench and writhe, sweat dripping down her taut arms as she pinned him beneath her, finding himself completely at the dragonslayer’s mercy. While she was a formidable opponent on the field of battle, she knew how not to over exert herself in the bedroom.

He wasn’t sure she where she intended to go with her comments, he wasn’t in need of an ego boost. After many of their intimate chats, he had come to realise it was best to let her work through ideas aloud that others might be more content to keep to themselves. And he did enjoy listening to the sound of her voice.

“I’ve met so many people in my travels, many some variation of good or at least decent. But rare is it to find someone as positive, as optimistic as you. You have very little reason to be so, given how you grew up, during the worst stage of the war. I can’t really figure out why you are the way you are but I must point out how much I appreciate it.”

She lowered her position so that her chest was flat against his, her elbows bent under his arms for support. He preferred her to feel entirely relaxed, her weight was never too much for him to bear. To that end, he continued to gently knead out the stress gathered beneath her weary skin.

“It’s so easy to stop caring, to become disillusioned with the world. Everybody else seems so caught up in themselves, they hurt others to make their own lives have meaning and value. There’s hardly anyone out there who is truly selfless. Even though I solve one world-destroying problem after another, if feels like the real enemy is within ourselves.”

She was in one of her philosophical moods again. There wasn’t much he could do to alleviate her concerns so he did what he usually did: tried to make her feel like the rest of the world was somewhere else while he pampered her as the illustrious treasure the she was to him. He had his own dark moments when he couldn’t make sense of others but he knew thinking like that was a rhetorical exercise without victors. Let the scholars and academics debate such quandaries while warriors like them sorted out the more immediate problems.

The small spirals turned into long, complex shapes as he worked his hands further into her sore muscles, applying more force against the back of her shoulders, drawing his thumbs along the tough shoulder blades, hard enough to elicit the occasional sigh of relief, a build up tension evaporating away like morning dew from her tightly wound flesh. He dragged the flats of his fingers slowly, methodically down her sides while his thumbs travelled down her spine, both hands arriving together at her waist where they lingered for a couple of heartbeats. Long fingers fanned out over the tantalising, concave curvature above her hips, again pausing to hold her firmly in his grip while he gazed up at her watchful eyes, trying to deduce what more she wanted from him.

She sucked on her lower lip, not ready to commit to the physical urges which he was inviting her to partake in. There was no urgency, they had been enthralled with one another without needing to let their desires become manifest. They knew the tide could shift at any moment but there was something to be said for two individuals enjoying each other’s company without having to do anything at all.

She laughed softly, pushing aside her dour thoughts, “Remember how little Alphinaud trusted you in the beginning? We had been burned so many times by others in power that he couldn’t entertain the notion that you actually meant what you said, that you weren’t trying to undermine us for personal gain. I bet he feels foolish now for how he treated you.”

“His suspicions, while unwarranted, were entirely understandable. He has good instincts and will make a fine leader himself some day, of that I am certain. Given the benefit of time and experience, he will show the world that an honest man can achieve great things.“

“He really looks up to you,” she said as if she meant to say _she_ looked up to him too, the implication both literal and figurative as she rested her chin against his chest.

“Not as much as he admires Estinien, surely,” he tried to laugh, she cut him off with a small kiss.

“I’ve prattled on long enough tonight,” she seemed genuinely apologetic, her lips only an ilm away from his own.

“We must not live our lives in fear of what others will make of us. You must take control of your own destiny.”

“You like being in control, don’t you?” Her eyes lit up, it wasn’t a question she was expecting an answer to. Under any other circumstances, he might have debated the point fervently.

“Mm.”

She extended her arms to test out her freshly loosened muscles, her rejuvenated bones gave a soft crackling noise as she flexed her deltoids. His hands were back to firmly grasping the small of her back, feeling every movement she made while repositioning. She arched and stretched her back then settled further down so that she was situated more comfortably against his lap. Before she pulled her arm away, he kissed it with a whispering touch. When she was done straightening herself out, she was sitting fully upright, relying on her arms to keep her upon him. Her large breasts swayed lazily side-to-side until they too were settled, each more than a single-hand’s width in size.

He found his mark deep within her, she let slip a sigh as he continued his upwards advance, her strong arms keeping up with the pressure of supporting her weight for a time while his smooth palms continued to press against her highly toned muscles, each caress fully in sync with his momentum. Her hips rose in time with him, like a slowly receding tide, each push inwards going further than the last.

He recited the words that he had been writing along her back, each line delivered slowly and patiently, his course ever gradual until eventually her arms gave out altogether.

“When your armour breaks, I will be your shield.

When you cannot stand, I will hold you up.

When you feel like you don’t have a voice, I will speak on your behalf.

When you laugh so hard it hurts, I will join in.

When you triumph over darkness, I will be there to help you celebrate.

When it all becomes too much, I will protect you from the world, this cruel world that we continue to fight for every day.

When you need to rest, you may lay your head upon me.

You needn’t face any of your troubles alone.

We shall rise and fall together.”

By the time he reached the bit about rest, she had collapsed in a shaking heap upon his chest, doing her best to keep up but unable to provide any further downward thrust. The waves of warmth continued to grow and engulf the pair, her panting breath begging for more and more.

\---

When he came out of his semi-lucid state, his entire body was trembling from head to foot, the water had gone cold while he dreamt of warmer places. He had fully intended to use the entirety of the soak to sort out all the issues plaguing him but his subconscious had had other ideas. Though the final sequence had left the most lingering impact, each of the dreams had depicted something of value, each showed something he wanted to do for Venice.

He would have let go of all his power, privilege, and prestige, absolutely everything he had earned so that he might give all of himself unto her, to lift her up and take away all her sadness and troubles, to revel in the same joys and pleasures. At the same time, he could appreciate why the church espoused the virtues of chastity and celibacy: to keep the mortal vessel pure, to focus the mind, to cleanse the spirit; all things he was struggling to keep in balance.

It was several long moments before he found the strength to stand again. After towelling off, he approached the solitary basin with the large looking glass. Without the fancy clothes or the gaudy jewelry, he looked like any other man. He tried to keep his dark fringe at what he deemed to be an appropriate length for a military leader but the strands curled of their own accord, the slight wave keeping his appearance a degree of unruly, the hair clinging to his cheeks in defiance of convention, just like the rest of him. But he wasn’t the same as anyone else, he was the complete opposite of what it meant to be orthodox. A herald of peace and progress, his own private feelings be damned.

_As it should be. Ishgard is your beloved. The Warrior of Light is a distraction, a temptation that will lure you to the abyss if you should let it take hold._

He knew that voice too well: the brutal inner sceptic, the ruthlessly cold logician, the calculating ruler. For a moment, he saw Thordan’s lifeless eyes staring back at him. He tried to look away but the seed of doubt had been sown. The voice, his own voice, did not relent.

_Traitor. You cannot save them both._

The war between duty and the heart waged furiously on, draining what little energy he had left. He sat alone in the lounge room, hoping a freshly lit fire and a warm beverage could soothe his soul but neither was having any effect. It was the same spot where he had cradled Venice when she had suffered from a similar crisis of faith.

He recalled rifling through a copy of the Enchiridion for inspiration, looking for the passage about grief and the merits of sacrifice, her slumbering form resting against him. Maybe that wasn’t what she needed, the Holy Word would not fix her wounds. The best he could do was offer her comfort and shelter when she needed it, that had to be enough. There was no such luxury for him.

He thought of all the tasks that lay ahead at the Congregation, he could not afford to be of two minds. A splitting headache was threatening to devour him, there was only one recourse left.

“O Halone, what must I do?” he fell to his knees and began to pray.

\---

They came without warning, that should have been the first clue that something had gone catastrophically wrong. How could every watch tower in Coerthas and the Sea of Clouds miss a soaring, mechanical fleet that could blot out the sun? The Emperor’s flagship at the fore, numerous ships of various shapes and sizes, the last remaining sight for many an usurped nation across Hydaelyn. 

They stormed the city, wrecking unfathomable destruction, toppling glistening towers with ease, devastating the anti-dragon defences systematically before disembarking to clean up what resistance remained on the ground. They knew where to go, where the hardest targets were, how to cripple the populace with the least amount of effort. The Garleans with their long-reaching gunblades, magitek machines, their casual disregard for honourable combat.

A nation of hardened warriors surpassed by superior numbers, technology, and tactics. They hadn’t stood a chance, someone had sold them out. Had to have been, the way they had approached from above, shattering the Steps of Faith so reinforcements could not enter, should the Alliance have even deemed to try and help their new ally; the dragons of Zenith were unreachable, not that they would have been keen to intervene.

Thoughts of betrayal swelled around him as he tried to find sanctuary in the rubble of the cathedral, hoping to find a living soul within the war-torn remains, colourful-stained glass shattered into a million pieces amongst the crumbling stone, the statue of Halone cleaved in two, Her eyes full of sadness. There was no one left. He had seen the bodies of all his former allies, the only two he could not account for were Lucia and Venice.

“If you wish to join the rest, I would be happy to grant you what you desire,” a cool, menacing voice called out to him. He expected it to be Emperor Varis zos Galvus but when he lifted his head, he saw Zenos yae Galvus instead, a beaming smile across his feminine features, a strange curved blade held out at his side, so narrow that it barely looked capable of slicing through a piece of parchment. His armour was disgusting and bulky, meant to intimidate his foes, the blade was his preferred katana, the weapon of an Eastern samurai.

He had no desire to listen to the monster gloat further so he grabbed his proper blade, that which a knight should hold dear, with both hands he gripped it with all his strength. His tattered cloak of blue and gold swirled around him as he began his charge, holding the blade in an overhead thrust, as Estinien might have done with his lance. To test the staggering brutality of a knight against the swift dexterity of a samurai, the ultimate contest of glory.

For revenge, for Ishgard, for all those who had been lost and could not be saved.

\---

Dreams of failure were not uncommon for one in his position. He wiped the sleep from his eyes and willed the mental fatigue away, there was too much do do to dwell on such nonsense.  Another day had come, another day of self-sacrifice to push through like any other. That was as good as it was going to get. Whether it was fair or not, the tasks fell to him and he would see them done.

They said it was lonely at the top but that was only a half-truth. He knew better than most that it was lonely at the bottom too.

A soft knock on the bedroom door kept the negative thoughts from taking root, “My lord, you have a visitor. They await you in the lounge room.”

“Thank you.”

_Please, by the grace of the Fury, let it be Venice.._

The man standing nonchalantly by the fireplace was the same height as the Warrior of Light but in place of her luscious plum locks, his hair was white as snow, unkept and hiding much of his face. The armour had changed but the lance he carried had not, it still bore all the disgusting remnants of Nidhogg.

“Estinien,” he said with a mix of awe and anger, the last of which caught him slightly by surprise. Shouldn’t he have been glad to see his old friend in one piece again? Had he not abandoned him when he needed him most?

“We need to talk,” the other Elezen said without preamble, without regard for his feelings, his icy eyes as unreadable as ever.


End file.

Shopping with the first commander had gone about as well as Venice could have expected; that is to say, it didn’t produce the desired results. Dress shopping for a pureblood Garlean female was excessively difficult outside of their homeland. Her proportions lay somewhere between a female Highlander and a male Elezen, neither of which was particularly useful in a city predominately made up of Elezen and Hyur of normal sizes.  
  
Compounded with Lucia’s disinclination to “let her hair down” or willingness to speak about anything other than subjects related to her job, and Venice found the experience to be an unusual trial of her patience. While she could talk about combat techniques all day, that had not been the point of the exercise.  
  
She took it as a reprieve when the other woman began to ask questions of their upcoming dinner engagement. It seemed the only thing she was interested in besides swordsmanship was how best to impress the young count. Venice was more than happy to satiate her curiosity but she did find herself in the confounding situation of agreeing to be the so-called “wingman” for both parties, a problem she would have to rectify before the appointed evening lest she make a fool of everyone involved.  
  
Eventually they agreed that finding a suitable garment already made would be a lost cause in the amount of time they had available. Venice offered to tailor down a large dress if they could find one but they had no success with that method either. She suggested they try another time by visiting the boutiques in Limsa where Roegadyn women frequented the markets.  
  
With great reluctance, Lucia decided it was the best option, easier to alter something down to specifications rather than the other way around. Venice did not rate her weaver abilities highly enough to try from scratch. However, she did know a fair bit about stitching since she often struggled to find fashion within Eorzea to her modern tastes.    
  
Venice was more accustomed to wearing synthetic fabrics of either Garlean or Allagan design, not always the most practical for adventuring or long journeys. She was a mage first and foremost so there was some leeway with what she could get away with.  
  
Lucia, on the other hand, was a knight, a mighty warrior who was rarely seen out of her suit of adamantite armour, coloured in silver and lined in red as was customary for her rank. Venice was surprised to see her getting around in trousers and a lightweight tunic; the woman was more beautiful than she let on, a trait that would have been useful to the former Garlean spy.  
  
When Lucia relented her quest to look the part of an upstanding lady, Venice was greatly relieved. The sun had been beating down on the markets the whole afternoon, not a single flake of snow or droplet of rain had fallen in days. The plants in the gardens around the Pillars were soaking it all in, revealing new buds and adding some much needed colour to the grey streets.  
  
Business was booming in Ishgard. Peace time was a boon for the markets, it encouraged optimism and confidence in spending. The types of good had changed from arms and armour to conveniences and recreation. With more time available for leisurely pursuits, there was more interest in general consumption. While many bemoaned the increased presence of foreigners, those looking to line their pockets were not among them.  
  
The shops buzzed with constant activity, no longer limited to the central avenue which split down the middle of the Jeweled Crozier. Former residences had begun opening up as small family-run businesses on their lower floors, selling everything from clothing to furniture to groceries to exotic trinkets and beyond. The awkward transition between the Pillars and the Brume was packed with makeshift stalls of goods, mostly full of foreign merchants that couldn’t afford the more exuberant real-estate elsewhere.  
  
The Brume was not immune to the fervent energy seen in the Pillars though the prices peddled by its merchants were lower, as was the quality of their products. It was a million times better than it had been when Venice had first arrived in Ishgard after the Horde had destroyed much of that section of the city; the difference was absolutely staggering.  
  
The foreigners consisted of all sorts. She saw an Au Ra woman trying to sell Doman silks to the parents of some mindblown children who kept asking her where she got her horns and tail from. Instead of belittling them for their ignorance, she was making money. Greed transcended stereotypes and racism, whether it be for good for ill. It was highly satisfying watching the dragon-esque woman work her wiles in a city that had only recently made peace after a thousand year conflict with wyvern-kind.  
  
But that was Ishgard in a nutshell. While it appeared to be an old-fashioned city with conservative values, when presented with enough evidence to the contrary, the people would rather move forward than be seen as following a false narrative. Honour and duty still mattered, anyone could change their mind if given the chance to do so.  
  
Venice wished the rest of Eorzea  would open themselves to new ideas. She acknowledged that Ishgard had an unfair advantage in being blessed with a progressive leader intent to see the lives of all her citizens improve. Other leaders could claim the same but their actions did not mirror their words.  
  
Despite her speech, Venice was still rankled by the Alliance’s overall stubbornness. The more she thought about them, the angrier she got. Nobody had lifted a finger to assist Doma since its liberation, despite their timely assistance at the Battle of Ala Mhigo. There was still so much further to go. She wondered if she could ever bring Hien to Ishgard to show him the possibilities available to his newly reborn nation.  
  
Her empathy for Ala Mhigo was significantly less, had they not nearly destroyed themselves before the Garleans even arrived? And what of their constant bemoaning of a lack of support while they created some sort of bulwark against future incursions into Eorzea, which no one had asked them to do? Gyr Abania was little more than an inhospitable wasteland full of petty, squabbling people who deserved their freedom just as much as anyone else though it remained to be seen how they would pay for it.  
  
Venice passed a small stand of clockworks featuring figurines and ships based on Garlean images, made out of what might have been parts from the Garlean magitek creations they were meant to mimic. She really was beginning to miss the simple touring life back when her only ambition was to become a celebrated rockstar rather than the saviour of the entire realm. Whether it was because of the tiny, toy-sized weapons of mass destruction or her wayward thoughts about the future, Venice was too distracted to notice the short man with windswept white hair who stood in her path.  
  
“Hey watch where you’re.. oh it’s _you._ ”  
  
“Cid! What are you doing out here, old friend?”  
  
“Old! _Old_! Just because you’re a babe fresh off the teet doesn’t make me old.”  
  
“Shouldn’t you be keeping a tight rein on Nero’s leash?”  
  
“That is precisely why I found business that needed doing away from his reach. Who will drive the future of airship technology if I am to go mad?”  
  
“Is it wise to leave him alone with a weapon intent on destroying the world?”  
  
“Keep your voice down, woman. Besides the Ironworks has other responsibilities beyond babysitting Omega. For example, there are more trade routes in the skies now than ever before and yet our airships can barely keep pace with those in Garlemald. Nevermind our fewer numbers. We certainly could have used more ships in Ala Mhigo, good thing the Domans showed up when they did.”  
  
“Not only do we need more ships, we need more _warships_ ,” Venice said, waving her hand at the miniature warmachina on display. “How accurate do you reckon these are?”  
  
“Not very, they look the part to the civilian eye but to me they look like their creator only had a children’s book as a guide. Still, I intend to buy a few. It’ll open a dialogue so that I can find the source for the parts.”  
  
“Expecting trouble?”  
  
“Not so much, I might be in need of some working mechanisms for a few projects.”  
  
“Anything interesting?”  
  
“Venice, it’s _all_ interesting.”  
  
She begged to differ, playing with numbers or waiting on the exciting things to happen or not happen hardly seemed like an effective usage of her time.  
  
“Bugger me, must have left my coinpurse on the _Excelsior_. You wouldn’t mind keeping an old man company would you?”  
  
“Sure."

It occurred to her that aside from most of Ishgard knowing that she was Garlean, that her closest allies, the Scions and by extension Cid and his colleagues within the Ironworks, were still none the wiser. Keeping secrets was not something she wanted to be known for but the right time to mention it hadn’t presented itself.  
  
“Now where did I have it last…”  
  
While Cid scoured the Enterprise-class vessel, Venice took in the magnificent view from the docks. A thick fog was lifting, pushed on by a dry, westerly wind. The city looked as magical as ever, her arches slowly emerging from beneath the haze, the abyss beyond beckoning to her adventurer’s spirit. Perhaps she had overstayed her welcome and it was time to move onto whatever else Hydaelyn had in store for her.  
  
She looked back at the towers, the pillars, the statues of pious saints looking down upon the populace, it was home but that didn’t mean she couldn’t leave whenever she wanted. There was nothing to bind her to the city of Ishgard, she was not a moored airship waiting for a master to set her loose.  
  
“Found it. Oh, you’ve got that misty-eyed expression again,” Cid came up beside her, leaning against the ship’s railing. “You ever get tired of all the travelling back and forth?”  
  
“Not a chance,” she turned to face him, putting her back to the temptation of remaining stationary. “Lots of crates around here. Don’t tell me you’ve been roped into delivery work. Hardly befitting of a man of your talents.”  
  
“I wonder where you’ve picked up your sense of charm as of late, no doubt spending too much time around poncy nobles. Sometimes I miss the old Venice, the one that would swear so much that she’d make the Admiral blush.”  
  
“I still do that,” she said with a small laugh. “There is something calming about this place. There aren’t as many people trying to exploit me here as everywhere else.”  
  
“Maybe not you. There’s still plenty of bullshit if you open your eyes wide enough. But, knowing you, that’s the extra layer of character that you like to see,” he smirked.  As an engineer he appreciated logical, straightforward paths whereas she was far more creatively inclined with how she approached almost everything. The pair of them hadn’t had too many heart-to-heart chats but they were often on the same wavelength when it came to their opinions. “As for the goods, I am carting things to and from Idyllshire.”  
  
“Have they set up a dock yet?” She asked with surprise, trying to remember what the free city had looked like last time she had been there.  
  
“No, this ship is one of the few that can land close by so we try to keep things moving when we can in exchange for whatever knowledge the goblins have came up with since our last trip.”  
  
“So, what about the workshop in Revenant’s Toll, do you still go there too?”  
  
“What about it?” he shrugged. “The Ironworks has grown a lot, we’re spreading out with multiple crews in multiple locations working on numerous different projects. When’s the last time the Scions made use of the Rising Stones?”  
  
“Fair point. I guess we’re all constantly on the move these days.”  
  
“Speaking of moving parts, I had hoped to test a new prototype device in addition to playing courier.”  
  
Venice was only half-listening by that point, she thought something had caught the attention of her gaze, just out of the corner of her eye. It must have been a passing bird or some other benign object because she did not see anything out of the ordinary on the deck.  
  
“Bloody hell!” Cid exclaimed so suddenly she jumped with momentary fright.  
  
“What?!”  
  
“It’s gone, someone has crawled all the way under the gear mechanism and nicked it. How would they even know to look there? Stupid, I left it loose deliberately in case it needed to be removed mid-flight. Must have been after broken parts, probably has no idea what they stole.”  
  
“Well, I have no idea either. Can’t you make another.. whatever it is?” she looked around for any evidence of an unwanted passenger.  
  
None of the crates had been moved, there were no strange markings alluding to footprints, no tingling sense of recently disturbed aether like when a mage casted a spell or a magitek device had been used. Whoever had done the deed would have had to be quick and quite small in stature to sneak around; a rogue or a couple of rogues with a great deal of experience under their belts. Venice could feel a sense of excitement building as she tried to unravel the mystery.    
  
“Make another! You’re not familiar with the term ‘prototype’ are you, it’s one-of-a-kind,” Cid was less than thrilled about the impending case of a stolen object. “We must recover it right away.”  
  
“What’s so special about it?”  
  
He gave her a long, breathless explanation about trajectories, weather patterns, fuel injection systems, aether condensation, ceruleum efficiency, something about the flight speed of a Meracydian sparrow, and several other descriptions of nonsensical technobabble. By the end, he had worked himself into a panic about the potential implications that the theft might have on the future of technological advancement for the entire world.  
  
“Cid, you may as well be speaking Hingan to me,” she said suddenly, snapping her fingers in front of his face to snap him out of it.  
  
“It makes the _vroom vroom_ better,” he chided her in a condescending tone, motioning forward movement with his arms. When that failed to dissolve the look of confusion which she was most certainly showing, he tried one last time in a calm, steady voice, “It calibrates several variables which allow the ship to fly faster than normal without having to radically change the engine or any other mechanism involved.”  
  
“Uh-huh. What does it look like, how heavy is it?”  
  
“The device is a small handheld thing with lots of coloured buttons which light up when pressed. There is a little monitor which depicts squiggly lines when its on. I’m hoping to upgrade it with a holographic overlay eventually. I haven’t given it a proper name yet, let’s just call it a Calibrator for now.”  
  
“We could go back to that shop with the toys, maybe its been pawned off there,” she suggested.  
  
“Aye, you go ahead. I’ll report the theft and make sure the slippery miscreant doesn’t spirit themselves away on another one of these vessels.”  
  
The shopkeeper was merely a distributor, knowing nothing about the origin of his products. After a bit of coaxing, and the promise of handing out advertisement leves, he told Venice of a supplier in Idyllshire though he knew not if that was where the machina were crafted.  
She found it curious that there were so many layers,  a figurative paper trail, involved in something so simple as decorative figurines.  
  
Usually when she solved problems she would be pointed at some world-destroying beast and told to stop it by any means necessary. Normal people had daily routines, their conflicts were considerably less dangerous which was balanced out by their bureaucratic complexity.  
  
When she found Cid again, he was having an intense discussion with Ser Handeloup, the second commander for the Temple Knights, who had the grave misfortune of being on duty at the time. Before Venice could make an effort to calm her friend down again, there was a loud crashing sound emitting from further down the street. The knight spun around almost instantly to face the disturbance, his hand dropping to the hilt of his blade as he did so.  
  
Again Venice saw nothing out of the ordinary aside from some disheveled shoppers which had moved out of the way. The street was too crowded for running so she looked up for inspiration, catching sight of some patchy scaffolding that extended down most of the street’s length. She then tried to catch sight of the second commander which wasn’t particularly difficult given his height.  
  
“Hey you with the really long legs,” she said, interrupting the knight as he tried to reassure the citizens that the situation was under control. He continued to ignore her attempts for his attention, “Ser Cantaloupe!”  
  
“ _It’s Ser Handeloup_ ,” he snapped at her, then upon recognising who he was speaking to, his expression softened, “What is it Mistress Lysander?”  
  
“Think you could lift me up there?” she pointed.  
  
“I don’t see how..” he paused and looked around, the streets were swelling with people and the thief was getting away. “Alright, if you want to help then who am I to say no.”  
  
It took a few moments to find a suitable spot to gain enough purchase. There were some crates, a ladder or two, barrels of who knew what and a gap wide enough that Venice required standing upon the sceptical knight’s solid shoulders. For once, she was grateful for the obnoxiously large pauldrons worn by Temple Knight officers.  
  
“Can you see anything?” he called up, she shook her head in response.  
  
“I’ll cover this path, see if you can take the street that leads back to the docks. Make sure he has nowhere to hide along the way.”  
  
“Would help if we knew what he looked like. The first shopkeeper described him as a Doman boy, maybe ten summers in age.”  
  
“That’s somewhat helpful, I’ll whistle if I find him.”  
  
As Venice scrambled across the incomplete scaffolding and highly slanted rooftops, she began to wish she had taken her dragoon training more seriously. Estinien had always made it look so gods’ damn easy, soaring above the ground like a wyvern on the hunt.  
  
Another crashing noise, merchandise spilled into the streets, cries of disgruntled shoppers, shattering glass, the high-pitch shouting of a young girl in distress. Venice saw a face she recognised hunched over the shards of some broken potion vials. The gap to the next wooden platform was too great to cross so she made her way delicately down to the ground by way of conveniently close-together window sills. The cobblestones of the street were reassuring once she landed upon them.  
  
“Maelie? What’s wrong?” Venice bent down to the small girl’s level.  
  
“I was buying medicine for Mama then this kid knocked me over and now its all ruined. I haven’t got any gil left to buy more,” the lowborn Elezen tried to dry her eyes with the back of her dirtied sleeve. Venice could have sworn she was an orphan like most of the other kids from the Brume.  
  
“I’ll cover the cost, will that work?”  
  
Maelie’s eyes lit up, “But wouldn’t I owe you something in return?”  
  
“How about this for an exchange: you tell me where that boy went and if I find him, I’ll throw in a bit of extra. You can get the potions now since they’re more important.”  
  
“I’ll find the rest of the Watch right away, we’ll get him,” she balled her hand into a fist and ran off, forgetting all about her errand. The apothecary owner glared at Venice when she saw the mess the child had left behind. Venice was even more dubious about the “sick mama” that Maelie had conjured up but she kept her word and paid for the potions all the same.  
  
She wandered back towards the docks to see if her comrades had had any better luck. Cid had retired to his ship’s quarters in the wishful hope that his device would turn up of its own accord, leaving Venice alone with the reserved knight.  
  
“Any joy, Cantaloupe?” Venice asked her new partner in solving crime.  
  
“It’s.. you’re winding me up aren’t you?” the tall Elezen said. He had a tired look about him.  
  
“At least you’re catching on,” she patted him on the shoulder. “I haven’t found anything yet but let’s just say.. I have an informant on the case.”  
  
“What is a cantaloupe anyway?” He raised a curious eyebrow.  
  
“It’s.. honestly, I have no idea. There used to be hawkers in the markets back home trying to sell them.”  
  
Something caught his attention back the way they had come. He took off at high speed with Venice trying in vain to keep pace. She saw him too, for the first time: a boy with dark hair and eyes, a little over her waist in height wearing ragged clothes, a leather satchel busting with contents slung over his shoulder. They chased him for several minutes without gaining much ground. Then he disappeared as they were blocked by foot traffic.  
  
They stopped by some unopened crates to catch their breath. Handeloup lunged at something and emerged with a squirming boy under one arm. Well, not exactly a boy given the small goatee. And the pointed ears were not typical for a Hyur. The clothes were too expensive, covered in glitz and fake rhinestones.  
  
“Cantaloupe, I hate to tell you but that’s a Lalafell,” Venice said while trying to stifle her amusement.  
  
“Is it? Oh, my mistake,” he didn’t seem to bothered by the revelation, merely disappointed that their quarry had escaped once more.  
  
“Put me down this instant ser!” the shady-looking Ul’dahn demanded. He might not have been the thief, but just what he had been doing lurking around behind the stalls in a suspicious manner didn’t exactly make him seem like an innocent man. And Venice was always sceptical of a Lalafell’s intentions.  
   
“If you insist..” Handeloup shrugged, dropping the man per his wishes. From a height of at least a yalm in the air.  
  
“Why, I never! Your superior will be hearing about this,” he shook his fist like a child throwing a tantrum then sauntered off.  
  
“That’s going to make Lucia’s day,” Handeloup grinned for the first time that afternoon.  
  
“I think she could do with the laugh,” Venice agreed.  
  
More time passed with the thief still at large. The docks were secured by alerted patrols, the shops went on about their business as if nothing was wrong, the afternoon waned into early evening and still nothing. As the street lamps began to light, a small figure emerged from an alley with a triumphant grin.  
  
“The Watch has eyes on him in the lower levels, where all the warehouses are,” Maelie said to Venice, oblivious to Handeloup’s presence.  
  
“Good girl, here’s what I owe you,” Venice handed over some coins to the child’s greedy, outstretched hands. “Your potions are waiting back at that shop whenever you can pick them up.”  
  
“Oh thank you Miss Venice!”  
  
“By the Fury, did you just bribe a child? You can’t go around doing that,” Handeloup fixed Venice with a distasteful stare, she shrugged.  
  
“It worked didn’t it?”  
  
“What sort of habits will she develop now that she thinks she’ll get rewarded?”  
  
“Not my problem..”  
  
“You’re clearly not a parent, my own daughter is about her age.”  
  
“Just.. how old are you? It's so hard to tell with Elezen.”  
  
“Let’s go find this thief and be done with this business,” he sighed, following after a jubilant Maelie who was beckoning the pair to follow her.  
  
The bowels of the Brume’s lowest reaches were dark, so dark that the small party had to utilise torches to see where they were going. Venice was bemused, they were genuine torches, the kind with actual fire not the ones that were encased in a metal handle with a crystal emitting light through a glass pane via the power of a magitek power source.  
  
_How very Ishgard._  
  
The warehouses themselves were plentiful and large. They were long stone buildings divided up into sections for all matter of matériel, some of it military in purpose and others more ubiquitous in nature. While the upper levels were designed for living, storage below was necessary for a city that had to bring in everything that sustained that comfortable lifestyle. The outposts and garrisons beyond the city proper were not used solely for defence, they were the places where food was gathered and materials were procured.  
  
Venice suspected that before the Calamity it wasn’t quite as important to hoard things throughout the everlasting winter months, she wondered what the lower levels might have held back then. Probably nothing good, judging by the tight pathways between buildings. She had seen her fair share of creepy, unlit dungeons filled with unsavoury creatures, the stretches of emptiness made the hairs on the back of her neck stand on end. She half-expected a void monster or a crazed robed figure to come lashing around every corner. Her companions were wide-eyed and alert as well though they didn’t seem quite as daunted, it was still a part of their blessed city even if it no longer looked cozy and inviting.  
  
Maelie walked along as if she knew where she was going, occasionally raising her torch to check for pebbles or other markings along the way. Sometimes she would stop suddenly without the adults noticing then disappear down a narrow laneway which they could not follow her down to get her bearings. More than once, Handeloup swore that she was toying with them, leading them on some wild dodo chase for the amusement of the other orphans that lurked in the darkness.  
  
But they were too far in to make their way back out again without her help so Venice tried to reassure him that whatever they were being led to could be dealt with handedly by the pair of them. As if to further the point, or mayhaps to alleviate her own concerns, she unsheathed her staff and held it close to her chest in a backwards grip. The green glow of the Sindri Lux relic used to seem placid and calming, in the complete darkness it only enhanced the ominous feeling around them.  
  
“Wait,” Handeloup put his hand out to stop Venice. “Did you hear that?”  
  
“No?”  
  
“Fury preserve us, that better not be the sound I think it is..”  
  
“We’re getting close, it has to be one these buildings near here,” Maelie said with a complete lack of certainty.  
  
“You did see where he went right?” Venice felt like she should have asked it much earlier.  
  
“Well, not exactly. I saw him disappear in this direction but never followed too close,” Maelie admitted.  
  
“Great,” Handeloup said with the utmost sarcasm, which surprised Venice a little since she thought he was supposed to be the super serious one.  
  
“Smart,” Venice approved. “You didn’t want to blow your cover. I’ll give you a few more coins for not putting yourself in danger.”  
  
“ _Really_ , Venice? Do you have to encourage her?”  
  
They went through a door into a room filled to the brim with dragonkillers and other sorts of large-scale siegecraft. A chirping noise like that belonging to a small animal greeted them. Handeloup searched for a lantern along the wall to light but needn’t have bothered for there was ample fire in the next room.  
  
“Get it away from me!” the thief squeaked, pinned to the wall by a chocobo-sized dragonet.  
  
Spotty flames licked at various crates around them, not enough to endanger the integrity of the room but certainly enough to instill panic. One of the crates had been pried open, revealing a clutch of 4 immense eggs with dark shells. Venice had seen eggs like that in that Aery, her heart stopped for a second as she tried to process the scene before them.  
  
“I really hate being right,” Handeloup grimaced, grabbing for his sword.  
  
Images of Venice’s descent into the Coils surfaced then, the sight of thousands of dragons imprisoned in tiny cells by their Allagan captors, waiting to be freed but never getting the chance. When Bahamut was finally destroyed, their lives had also been forfeited. They had not deserved that fate, neither had the many dragons which had died during the Dragonsong War though most Ishgardians would stoutly disagree. There had been enough senseless death for both wyrm and mankind, she could not abide by it.  
  
She stood with her arms out between the boy and the baby dragon, between the pair of them and Handeloup’s hungry blade.  
  
“What in the Seven Hells are you doing?”  
  
“We can find another way to resolve this,” she shouted at him. Maelie looked between them both, unsure of whose side to take.  
  
“Look at its scales, Venice, they are black!”  
  
“Racist much?”  
  
“That dragonet is a spawn of Nidhogg!” he shouted over her. “It must be destroyed. For the sake of peace, the Horde must not be allowed to continue anew.”  
  
Maelie made up her mind and joined Venice. The dragonet was too feral to care about the newcomers’ intentions. It lunged out with its razor-sharp talons, its wings wide-spread. Both children screamed out in terror, Venice raised her staff to cast a blinding Holy spell. While the ball of energy rose and grew, she planted her feet back on the ground and encircled them all with an Asylum bubble should the fires begin to spread.  
  
Handeloup went straight for the creature’s skinny neck, trying to cut it down before it could take flight, he half-succeeded drawing forth sickly black blood which gathered on the ground where it had once roosted. Between the gaping wound and the enclosed space, the fight left the dragonling almost immediately. It fell back unceremoniously onto the crate which harboured its unhatched siblings.  
  
“Is it..” the boy asked, getting back to his feet while clutching at his crippled shoulder, dark red blood dripping through his fingers.  
  
“You killed it,” Maelie cried. She climbed the crate to the dragonet with considerable ease then placed its monstrous head in her lap. “Venice, use your healing magics. Hurry.”  
  
“I can’t, Maelie,” Venice said quietly. “I can’t resurrect a body that is completely dead. Not even one belonging to a dragon.”  
  
Maelie’s tears accumulated on her cheeks as she closed the beast’s eyes for the final time. She rubbed its scales as if she were petting a coeurl and muttered what might have been a prayer. It had nearly killed her and yet she was compelled with compassion. Venice tried to keep her focus on Handeloup so that she wouldn’t tear up as well.    
  
Handeloup returned his blade to its scabbard. The remissant boy came straight up to him, knowing that he was in more trouble than he should have been if not for the dragon. Instead of giving him further grief, the knight set about binding the boy’s wound with some loose cloth found nearby.  
  
“How long have you been down here?” he asked while examining the child’s other limbs.  
  
“Couple of days. I wasn’t trying to take anything anybody would miss, honest.”  
  
“But you were stealing nonetheless,” Handeloup reprimanded him. “Are you from Doma? How did you end up all the way out here? What of the dragon eggs, do you know where they came from? What about Master Garlond’s device?”  
  
“Cantaloupe, ease up would you?” Venice said gently, bending down to double-check his first aid handiwork. “I doubt he’s responsible for this. It doesn’t look like he has anything but the clothes on his back.”  
  
“We should burn the rest of them before they hatch,” he said without emotion.  
  
“No!” Maelie squealed from across the room.  
  
“I can understand self-defence against the one that was alive. But to condemn innocents? Let’s find a better solution,” Venice urged him.  
  
“Do you have any idea how many knights we lost when Nidhogg landed on the Steps of Faith? Nevermind all the ones before that point. They are hardly innocent,” he bit back his anger.  
  
“I was there, I know believe me,” she said with a heavy sigh. “But shouldn’t we be looking forward rather than back? What do you think Aymeric would have us do?”  
  
“I don’t know.”  
  
“Well, you’re the one in command right now so whatever you decide, that’s what we’ll go with.”  
  
“We should get more information about the eggs,” Handeloup said after a moment. “If they aren’t ready to hatch, maybe we can do something about moving them.”  
  
“Alright, sounds like a plan. Let’s get ourselves an expert down here to take a look. We can seek one out when we take the boy to the infirmary. With a watchful guard to look after him, of course.”  
  
The four of them slowly made their way back to Foundation, Maelie sticking close to the boy who went by the name of Shen. Handeloup took point and Venice covered their rear. All of them were exhausted by the time they made their way back to the Congregation.  
  
\---  
  
Once the boy was secured, Maelie tugged on Venice’s wrist, expressing a sense of concern that had been building in her since they left the dead dragon behind. “I don’t want your coins, I want something else instead.”  
  
“Oh yeah?” Venice said, looking down at her, unsure if it was considered rude to always stand at a child’s height when they spoke.  
  
“I want to ride the white dragon again,” the girl said, screwing her face into a look of determination. The tears had dried, she was ready to be brave.  
  
“That’s not going to be easy,” Venice crossed her arms and thought for a second.  
  
“I want her to know we aren’t all bad people,” Maelie’s eyes were big, full of wonder like most children. There was a hint of pride there as well, a sense of honour that Ishgardians held dear.  
  
“I could tell her for you, Handeloup’s probably going to send me out to Anyx Trine soon anyway.”  
  
“I need to show her,” Maelie insisted. “We’re not so different from the dragons, are we?”  
  
“No, no we are not,” Venice smiled, trying to put Maelie at ease, “Alright, I’ll talk to the lord commander on your behalf, we’ll work something out.”  
  
“Are you making more fanciful promises to an impressionable youngster?” Handeloup came up then, his hands on his hips. He didn’t seem particularly outraged, if Venice had to guess he was attempting to wind her up.  
  
“Don’t worry your pretty ears over it, Hilda will be here soon to take her home for the night.”  
  
“Good, that’s one less thing on my mind then.”  
  
“Where is Aymeric anyway?”  
  
“Locked behind some overrun committee meeting, most likely. Poor bastard,” Handeloup smirked. Venice suspected the bastard jokes never got old around the Congregation hall.  
  
“Did you find our dragon expert yet?”  
  
“Aye, I’ve sent Master Garlond out to Tailfeather to fetch him. Best we can do on short notice and I would not waste time while there is a clutch of dragons beneath the city,” Handeloup began to pace while they waited for the new arrival. “The last vestiges of an old era. Can you imagine the destruction they could wield, even at hatchling size? They would be in the perfect position to destroy us from within. What senseless person would do such a thing? It had to have been an intentional ploy.”  
  
“Not necessarily. They were in storage, mayhaps they weren’t supposed to remain there. The borders have been opening, right? All those extra merchants coming and going on a regular basis. Maybe there are unscrupulous types trying to carve out their own market in the shadows.”  
  
“What, like Limsan pirates or smugglers?” Handeloup stopped to consider the notion. “How stupid does anyone need to be to deal in dragon eggs.”  
  
“They would make for a lucrative commodity, especially now that the Horde has been decimated. Think of all the sort of people who would make use of them. Cultists, mostly. But what if there were a more sinister element, as you suggested, actively trying to take advantage of the peace we fought so hard for?”  
  
Their dire thoughts threatened to descend the conversation further into a lightless void of undesirable possibilities until the welcome sound of a door closing interrupted them. Cid entered the room with an elderly, black-haired Miqo’te in tow.  
  
“Fascinating,” the wide-eyed academic proclaimed. “Where is this specimen? I am so eager to dissect my first one.”  
  
“Your _first_?” Cid looked down at his guest. “Do you want me to take him back before it gets too cold out?”  
  
“Now, now. I’ve read every book, every treatise, every piece of literature in existence and some no longer so on the subject of dragon biology. You won’t find a deeper font of knowledge.”  
  
“Well, if that’s all it takes to become an expert these days then that makes me a meister of cheese,” Handeloup said mirthfully. Again Venice was surprised by his willingness to give into sarcasm, mayhaps he wasn’t a stick in the mud after all. She must have given him a quizzical expression because he shrugged and added, “What, a man needs a hobby.”  
  
“Right, you two take him down and see if you can figure out anything useful. Mayhaps you can measure the amount of aether in the eggs to determine their age? I don’t know, you’re the science guy, Cid. I’m going to port over to Anyx Trine and ask for Vidofnir’s opinion on the matter.”  
  
“What about my Calibrator, did you find it yet?” Cid asked.  
  
“Nay, Shen said he already fenced it before we got to him,” Handeloup said. “We’ll ask him more questions when he’s recovered.”  
  
“Damn it all, back to the drawing board with that one,” Cid kicked at the ground. “Really hope it doesn’t make its way into the wrong hands, if we’re lucky it will get used as scrap and nothing more.”  
  
“Gentlemen? Are we off to see a dragon now?” the Miqo’te asked. Venice took that as her opportunity to port out.  
  
\---  
  
Based on Venice’s physical descriptions of the dragonet, Vidofnir was convinced that it had hatched prematurely. The suspicion was confirmed by Cid and the so-called dragon expert when she returned. What nobody could deduce for sure was how long they had before the eggs were actually due.  
  
Venice had used the rest of her audience with Vidofnir to come up with a temporary plan for the removal of the eggs. Vidofnir herself was too old to hatch or raise them but she suggested they could delay the hatching long enough to wait for another prospective consort. Once one was ready, they could then mix the eggs in with those belonging to one of Hraevelgr’s brood. The Nidhogg spawn would not be raised to hear the song of their true sire and could decide their own fates when they were old enough. The process would differ little from when a house of Ishgard raised an orphan as one of its wards. As a former ward herself, Venice thought it was poetic solution.  
  
There was, however, a glaring twist in the proverbial dragon’s tail.  
  
Dragon eggs were highly susceptible to temperature changes. They would need to be put in a cold environment for a long period of time. Nowhere in Coerthas was suitable, there were not enough sentient dragons to watch over the eggs in the cold mountains. What would have been ideal was to keep them close to Anyx Trine, where they would not be disturbed by outside influences. But Anyx Trine was situated at the base of Sohm Al, a conventionally hot volcano.  
  
The eggs would need to be a surrounded by a thick layer of ice-aspected crystals, the sort the cultists who once followed Saint Shiva would have used in their summoning rituals. The quantity of the crystals would have to be vast, making them a target for any lingering cultists who had not been pardoned by the church in the aftermath of the war. And there were two beast tribes who also called Dravania home that could make use of the crystals for their own ends.  
  
Despite the imposing challenges and risks involved, the Temple Knight leadership agreed that a concentrated effort needed to be made to ensure the survival of the unhatched dragonlings. The decision was made in part because Venice had already exposed the knowledge of their presence to Vidofnir and her kin. Given the lack of time on their side to make the transition go as smoothly as possible, nobody faulted her for taking the initiative. On the contrary, Aymeric saw an opportunity to slay two dragons with one lance, as he so often did.  
  
While Lucia favoured a stealthy approach to the operation, he advocated the complete opposite. The troops were freshly rested from their campaign in the East but they would need combat exercises to keep them in peak condition for the next deployment when it arrived. He would turn their simple escort of the crystals and the eggs into a full blown march meant to test the endurance of the knights of all four houses. With ample numbers, they would not be an inviting target. Should they meet any resistance along the way, the experience would serve to educate the knights on how to prepare for ambushes and other unpredictable conditions.  
  
Once they arrived at Anyx Trine, the dragons would take over guard duty so long as the eggs remained there. Dragons had no use for summoning primals so there was little danger in leaving the crystals in their care. They were also unlikely to see much opposition in the place where they congregated in great numbers. When the time came to move the eggs again, the knights would do another escort.  
  
In that way, it forced the two formerly opposing sides of the Dragonsong War to work together to protect the peace they had won. The eggs would see a future free of the tyranny that had once held the rest of Nidhogg’s brood captive and the knights of Ishgard would be reminded that they were to work with dragons rather than against them. The alliance would serve other purposes in the future such as dissuading the Garleans from advancing on their shared territory.  
  
\---  
  
Several days were required to make the arrangements needed to prepare the caravan for its journey across the Western Highlands. During that time the eggs, were kept at the top of the beacon at Falcon’s Nest which itself remained unlit until the operation was ready to commence. Everyone knew their task and set about completing it without hesitation. Not even the chilling blizzards would deter them.  
  
Venice was taken aback by the sheer size of the operation as well as by the sense of grandeur which accompanied everyone’s efforts. She had not seen every arm of the Ishgardian military working together in such a way before, not even when they had mixed seamlessly with the Alliance forces in Gyr Abania. There was something uplifting about watching fighting men and women putting their talents for combat to use on a mission of peace.  
  
The crystals had been sourced from the stashes left behind in Snowcloak by redemptive cultists. The former cultists were attempting to start their lives over by returning to live within the city’s walls, under the church’s watchful protection. Not all had converted after the truth had been shared with the rest of their countrymen but many did not see the point in living like vagabonds any longer.  
  
House Durendaire and a small team led by Ser Handeloup saw to the accounting of the stockpiles before they were transported by airship to Falcon’s Nest. The airships escorts were maintained by House Haillenarte. Once the deliveries were made, House Dzemael’s knights saw to loading the caravans and double-checking that everyone had the right equipment for the upcoming venture. House Fortemps was in charge of maintaining manpower, a job Lord Emmanellain found more enjoyable once he discovered that Ser Laniaiatte was commanding the Rose Knight contigent. All four houses were to assist in the actual escort through Coerthas and into Dravania alongside the Temple Knights which made up the bulk of the guard.  
  
The sight that astonished her the most was seeing genuine Ishgardian cavalry in the field, they looked the stuff of legends: a heavily-armoured knight riding upon his or her majestic dark chocobo steed, also laden in shining armour, either on the ground or in the air with the rest of their unit at full speed, weapon drawn or banner held aloft. She had been compelled to leave her own chocobo, Antonius, behind at Camp Dragonhead when he had caught sight of his mate, Octavia, at the stables after a prolonged absence away from her side.  
  
Octavia was a thoroughbred, Ishgardian bo with jet black feathers and steely temperament. While she had been a gift from Haurchefant, Venice had found it more useful to donate her pedigree status to hatching some of Camp Dragonhead’s newest generation of cavalry birds rather than using her as a personal mount. Somehow she didn’t think Haurchefant would have minded.  
  
It didn’t bother her to join the march on foot, not at first. Once they got within sight of the Dreaming Dragon, her calves were beginning to regret the decision wholeheartedly. Venice spent too much time zipping around the realm through aetherytes and on the backs of some of the most exotic creatures that she had forgotten how difficult walking in yalm-high snow could be. The spearmen who walked alongside the wagons as they made their way through the vast canyons of ice tried to cheer her up whenever they could. She tried not to complain too much, at least she wasn’t burdened with chainmail or large packs of camping equipment.  
  
Temporary relief was granted when they made camp in the valley just past the small gap that marked the border with Dravania. They were not to disturb the hunting village of Tailfeather as they passed through with their large numbers though the hunters knew they would be coming.  
  
“Have you eaten yet?” Venice turned to find a red-haired Elezen offering her a bowl of stew.  
  
“Oh, thank you, Lani,” she eagerly accepted the bowl. Ser Laniaitte sat down beside her, across the way other knights were tucking into their suppers.  
  
“It feels strange to stand on solid ground again,” the knight mused.  
  
“Tell me about it,” Venice nodded in Emmanellain’s direction, “When are you going to stop stringing him along?”  
  
She frowned, “It's difficult, you know? His heart is always in the right place but his head.. He’s not as smart as his brothers.”  
  
“Well, I can’t entirely disagree with you.”  
  
“And what of you and the lord commander?”  
  
“We’re friends,” Venice said carefully.  
  
“Venice, you’re the only person he doesn’t refer to by title or rank, there has to be more going on there. Even Haurchefant, who he grew up with, was always ‘Lord Haurchefant’,” Laniaitte looked slightly uncomfortable saying his name out loud. Venice got the impression that that was the real reason why she wasn’t giving Emmanellain a fair go.  
  
She had seen very little of Aymeric since they left Ishgard. He had ridden with the vanguard, not content with giving orders from afar. When she did lay eyes on him, he seemed completely at ease, as if thoroughly enjoying being in the field where he was most effective. He had had the same positive glow about him in Ala Mhigo. As far as she could tell, he seemed to be happiest when he wasn’t confined to the city of stone and steel. She would love to see him that relaxed more often.  
  
“I should probably turn in early, I’m not as fit as the rest of you,” Venice said once she was finished with her meal. She was getting kind of tired of everyone passing judgement on her relationship status. There would be plenty of time to figure it out later.  
  
\---  
  
“Are we there yet?” Maelie asked.  
  
“Are you going to keep asking that?” Venice sighed.  
  
“Are we there _yet_?”  
  
“You’ll know when you see the tower.”  
  
“The one that looks like it belongs in Ishgard?”  
  
“Yes, how did you know?”  
  
“Well-spotted, Maelie,” Aymeric said, joining the pair of them. Venice hadn’t even heard his chocobo’s talons hit the ground, she looked over to see that it's raven-like feathers had turned almost blue in the afternoon sun. “As you can see, the style of our buildings has not changed much since the time of our ancestors.”  
  
“Thank you, I’m learning how to be an adventurer like Venice,” she boasted. The young Elezen dug her legs further into Venice’s midsection as she strained to get a better view.  
  
“There’s more to adventuring than literally riding my shoulders all the way since Tailfeather..” Venice complained.  
  
“Are you certain it was such a good idea to bring a child to the Forelands?” he asked for what must have been the third time in as many bells.  
  
“Right into the heart of dragon territory with enough crystals in tow to summon a primal or two? What could possibly go wrong,” Venice would have waved her arms in exasperation if she could. “I made her a promise.”  
  
“Aye, though I wonder what Vidofnir will make of it.”  
  
“Guess we’ll find out.”  
  
They had left the tall mangroves behind, replacing them with flat, open grasslands.  
  
“I thought I heard a bandernatch cry earlier,” Maelie said casually. Venice was slightly envious that she was at just the right level to engage in conversation with Aymeric while she was forced to play as her pack chocobo.  
  
“One of our scouting parties encountered a pack roaming too close so they had to engage a couple of them before the rest were routed,” he confirmed. “They will make for fine pelts once the hunters are done with them.”  
  
“Can I see them before then?” Maelie said with morbid excitement.  
  
“You’ll have to ask Ser Handeloup about that.”  
  
“Oh. Nevermind.” she went quiet again as they trudged along the ruins of an old stonework road.  
  
“She’s still mad at him,” Venice explained. “Are all Ishgardian children so unphased by the concept of death?”  
  
“Why shouldn’t they be? We’ve all seen so much of it.”  
  
The three of them continued on to the steps at the base of the main tower while the knights separated into their designated groups. Some split up to keep the wildlife and any nosey cultists at bay, others coordinated with the local Vath to let them know of the potential dangers while the operation was underway, most stuck behind with the wagons to ensure there were no interruptions close to the towers. The main group consisted of diggers with shovels and pick-axes, their task was to clear away the crumpled remains of one of the towers, then to hollow out the inside, preparing the new egg chamber for its guests and crystal compliment. A handful of scouting parties kept eyes on the various mountain passes that fed into the region.  
  
Once Maelie was satisfied that the stairs leading up to Vidofnir’s level were not too dirty for her new adventurer’s garb, she took point without Venice’s assistance. Though she had met the elder dragon before, she was still astonished to see her large, white form lounging about her chamber.  
  
“You don’t have to be shy, Maelie, you’ve met Vidofnir before, remember?” Venice encouraged her.  
  
“Welcome to my humble abode,” the large dragon bowed her head in their direction. She greeted them each in turn, “Warrior of Man, Son of Thordan, Child of Man.”  
  
“Lady Vidofnir,” Aymeric bowed deeply before her. “We have come to express our thanks for your brood’s assistance. It seems we are making a habit of seeking your aide.”  
  
“We are happy that thou gave these eggs a second-chance when others would not have done the same. Why dost thou bring the smaller one with thee?”  
  
Venice nodded to the young girl who took her cue to walk up to Vidofnir. “I’ve come to say that I am very sorry for the bad adults who hurt your brothers and sisters.”  
  
The elder dragon extended her neck out so that Maelie could pet her scales, “Apologies have already been made, young one. Now we must let the healing begin. What will thy brood do differently than thine’s forebears?”  
  
“We will fight!” Maelie declared. “We will fight alongside you because there are other bad people out there and not all of them are in Ishgard.”  
  
“That is a sound plan,” Vidofnir agreed. She looked over at the young Elezen’s companions to see if they had anything to add.  
  
“I think she’s said all that needs saying, don’t you?” Aymeric said to Venice. She nodded. “Well, then. If that is decided, there is one more humble request we would make of you, if you are willing, Lady Vidofnir.”  
  
“Anything for the Son of Thordan,” she made a rumbling noise that might have been the equivalent of a dragon laugh, Venice wasn’t entirely sure but her eyes did light up significantly when she focused her attention back on him.  
  
He cleared his throat, shot Venice a look of “why do I have to do it”, then proceeded, ”It is Maelie’s wish to fly on the back of her favourite white dragon once more. I know you are likely quite busy and we’ve already imposed enough on you and yours but..”  
  
“This is good timing, my hunt begins after sundown and I would scour the plains to select my evening prey soon. She may accompany while I do this,” Vidofnir made the cheerful noise again.  
  
“Ah, splendid,” he beamed then motioned to Maelie, “What have you to say?”  
  
“Thank you, Vidofnir! Thank you ever so much.”  
  
“It would be best to meet at the top of the tower where there are less obstacles to get in the child’s way, I will be there shortly after I’ve seen the progress that ye have made,” with that she raised onto her haunches and extended her wings to their full length. Delicately, for she was still an elderly dragon, she lifted herself off the ground and flew out the narrow hole above them.  
  
“What are we waiting for, let’s go,” Maelie ran off down the hallway, propelled by an abundance of excitement that only a child could muster. She stopped suddenly when she saw another high spiral of large, stone stairs.  
  
“Please, Maelie, no. You did such a great job on the last staircase, like a true hero of the realm,” Venice begged, her back aching at the very thought of doing the deed once more.  
  
“But I should save my strength for flying!” the child argued.  
  
“And so you shall,” Aymeric bent down beside her so they were nearly the same height. “I will carry you to Vidofnir.”  
  
“ _Really_?” Venice did not think it was possible for the child to be more excited and yet there it was. She could hardly blame her, she probably would have made the same shrieking noise if she were in her boots.  
  
“Why are your shoulders so big?” Maelie asked while she got into position.  
  
“It is so that my men can easily see me at a great distance,” he responded.  
  
“Can’t your enemies do that too?”  
  
“Sometimes that is a desirable effect.”  
  
Venice snickered, “So you’re not over-compensating for anything?”  
  
He gave her a sideways glance along with a very confident smile, “I assure you, there is nothing to over-compensate for. My sword is of ample size and girth.”  
  
Venice opened her mouth to retort but was stymied by Maelie’s innocent expression.  
  
“What are you two talking about?” she groaned, sounding annoyed that they were leaving her out.  
  
“Nothing.”  
  
“Big people stuff,” Venice added quickly. The rest of the ascent was silent, though there was plenty to think about along the way.  
  
\---  
  
Venice watched from a distance as Aymeric helped Maelie onto Vidofnir’s bareback. Without reins or saddle, she had to be shown the gaps between specific scales where she was allowed to grip with her hands as well as instructed in how to use her legs to stay balanced upright. He was incredibly patient with her, answering all questions and offering reassurance when needed. He had that way about him any time he gave commands, that soft, all-knowing voice that could bolster anyone’s confidence. Venice took great pleasure in watching him do what he did best.  
  
The trust between dragon and rider had to be absolute, their feelings fed off each other. Venice hoped that in the future more of Hraesvelgr’s brood would be integrated with specifically-trained knights for that selfsame purpose. She imagined a sky full of dragon riders charging at sluggish Garlean airships. What a glorious sight it would be.  
  
The pair took off, leaving Venice and Aymeric alone atop the tallest tower.  
  
“I think she has a crush on you,” Venice teased. She could not tell whether it was the dwindling sunlight radiating against his light skin or if he was actually blushing.  
  
“I suppose we cannot decide who falls in love with us,” He kept his focus on Maelie and Vidofnir as they soared closer to the mud spires of the nearest Gnath colony.  
  
“No, I suppose not.” Venice watched on, catching sight of a pair of cavalry riders riding off on a standard patrol below them. On closer inspection, she recognised the heraldry on their shields and grinned. One had a rose, the other a unicorn.  
  
“You put Laniaitte and Emmanelain together on purpose.”  
  
“Did I?” He tried to hide his smile. He was a terrible liar and he knew it.  
  
“Why are you so bloody smart?” The question was rhetorical but she was mildly curious where he had picked up the trait. She had met many intelligent people in her travels, some book smart and others tactically smart, he was somewhere in between both extremes.  
  
“Because I have to be. That’s how I survived. You are used to seeing me as a highborn but that has not always been the case.”  
  
She knew very little about his life before assuming the mantle of lord commander, he never spoke of it. What she did know was that he loved Ishgard with every fibre of his being and that the people of Ishgard had not always returned the gesture. He had started at the bottom, lower than most had, having to rise to his current station through hard work and sheer force of will, eventually earning the respect that his peers took for granted. If he was hiding painful memories behind those quiet eyes, he was doing an extremely good job of it, for she did not receive the slightest hint of an Echo.  
  
“Have you ever considered _not_ using the terms ‘lowborn’ and ‘highborn’?”  
  
He returned his attention to her, an expression of pure bewilderment played out over his gracefully sharp features, “One step at a time.”  
  
Having found her momentum, she pressed on, “I don’t give a damn about your social status, no more than do you care about whether or not I am the Warrior of Light.”  
  
They stared at each other as if seeing their true selves for the first time, not the heroes the rest of the world would imagine them to be. And they waited. It was clear what they both wanted to do right then. Venice knew exactly what was stopping them. They saw each other as complete equals, they could not decide who should make the first move. She put her hand out as if were a consolation prize and he took it, enclosing her hand with his own. They both looked sheepishly away from each other.  
  
Suddenly the pair were transfixed by Maelie’s extraordinary flight through the heavens. The sun was beginning to set while the first stars were already shining down upon them. The sky was full of reds and blues, a wondrous view.  
  
Returning to the fleeting, heartfelt moment which had slipped through their grasp, Aymeric broached the ensuing silence growing between them:  
  
“The hardest thing I ever had to endure was watching you face off against Nidhogg, I was utterly powerless then,” there was a shakiness to his voice that she had not heard before. ”It happened all over again when I witnessed you disappearing into that throne room, then later onto that platform encircled by the primal, Shinryu, which made Nidhogg look like a kitten in comparison.  
  
Once more, I was powerless, all I could do was wait and pray that you would pull off the impossible. Like you always do, flinging yourself into the gaping maw of danger without regard for your safety or anybody else’s.  
  
Afterwards, when victory was assured and you made your triumphant appearance, I wanted nothing more than to rush to your side, to hold you tight, to never let you go. Mayhaps in the heat of the moment, nobody would have questioned a man showering the object of his complete adoration with the affection she deserved.  
  
The moment passed and I wonder if the opportunity will ever come again.”  
  
“Mayhaps it will,” she said quietly. She wanted it to, desperately so, but she did not know how to say it in words. Just knowing how he had felt at the time was enough to send her own feelings into overdrive, leaving her mind’s ability to function utterly crippled.  
  
“How long must I wait for the next time to come around, until you’ve liberated another nation? What happens when you don’t make it back?” His emotions were fiery by that point, she had no words to soothe him. “You should know that while you’re out there tempting fate that there is someone waiting for you to come back.”  
  
She could sympathise with his plight, she had felt it herself once. Ironically enough, she had been at that very spot, Anyx Trine, when he had gone through that horrendous stabbing ordeal. When she and Alphinaud had learned what happened, she had been ready to give up everything in the event that he did not survive. Wrong place, wrong time. The Blessing of Light, the Echo, completely useless in that moment. Powerless, absolutely powerless.  
  
Mortal life was so fleetingly short. There were many times when she could have died herself, for stupid reasons. But she never worried about her own life, suddenly she was being asked to do so for somebody else’s benefit.  
  
“Aymeric,” it was all she could manage. He squeezed her hand, not expecting her to say more. He had said his piece, she could take her time figuring out her response.  
  
Though it had not been explicitly stated, the amount of concern and affection they held for one another was well and truly above the threshold of friendship. They could spend several bells in conversation or in complete silence and still enjoy being in the presence of the other. They did whatever felt right at any given time, living in the moment, sometimes forgetting their other obligations.  
  
She reflected on how physically they had shown their adorations since she had returned to Ishgard. It was all little stuff on its own: a bit of hugging, hand holding, the long winded greetings and farewells, the occasional cuddle, but together it was adding up. To what?  
  
Their lives were not conducive for traditional courtship and even if they were, Venice suspected the rules for Ishgardian relationships would be labyrinthian in their complexity.  She was dying to ask “what are we doing” but she was certain he didn’t know any better than her. Better to continue to act on impulse than to dispel the comfortable illusion with cumbersome logic.  
  
Again he squeezed her hand, hard enough that the wyvern scales of his gloves dug into her skin. He must have been silently thinking similar thoughts. Still neither knew what to do, not that there was any sense of urgency to their dilemma. The sun began to set and they watched on; neither beholden to the other, neither wanting to be apart.  
  
\---  
  
“Your plan proved to be a roaring success, as we’ve come to expect from you. As _I_ have come to expect.”  
  
They were back at the Congregation, the escort mission having reached its conclusion. Back behind his large desk, Aymeric looked like a hunting falcon who had recently had its wings clipped.  
  
“Thank you but I did not come here seeking praise,” Venice held her head in her hand, the way Alphinaud did when he was thinking very hard.  
  
“What troubles you so?”  
  
“That Doman boy. While definitely not a good samaritan by any means, I don’t think he was being purposely malicious. I can’t help but wonder about his motivations, why did he need to sulk about? What pushed him into living like that, in the shadows, alone, without concern for the morals of others?”  
  
“Why does any criminal do as he does? Perhaps we are not to know all things.”  
  
“I’m not trying to find a deep answer, I mean this boy in particular could have gone back to his homeland. Why didn’t he? Why live in poverty if you don’t have to,” she began to pace then arrived at her own answer. “Doma is on the right track but it's hardly welcoming of its returning refugees. There’s just not enough resources at their disposal, no wonder some haven’t returned.  
  
Which leads me to asking a favour though I know not if there is much you can do. Soon Hien will ask to join his nation to the Alliance, as you recently did with Ishgard. He’ll need an ally on the Council to back him up.”  
  
“I am aware, we’ve been keeping correspondence since the siege,” he watched her with a business-like air about him, the emotions he had wanted to express at Anyx Trine were nowhere to be seen.  
  
“Then you will throw your backing behind Doma?” she stopped.  
  
“What little I can give, yes. Why the sudden sense of concern?”  
  
“I fear the Alliance will returns to its old habits when there is no longer a crisis on their doorstep. Doma is so far away, geographically and culturally, that they will be easily forgotten about. Only the Scions were sent to assist them and that wasn’t even our full strength. I just get the feeling that Hien will have to fight an uphill battle whereas Lyse will get whatever she wants from the Council. There are only so many resources to go around, the Alliance may half-arse both attempts for aide.”  
  
“Some of this has occurred to me as well, Venice. It is my job after all, not merely looking after Ishgard but also her allies. Going forward we will need these relationships to be as strong as possible. This is what I’ve been working on since you’ve returned, a complex set of trade agreements that will work to benefit all nations within the Alliance. It's not exactly what you’re asking for but I don’t see why we cannot combine our ideas together.”  
  
“Too bad we didn’t recover Cid’s prototype, that may have played a pivotal role if it proved to live up to its potential. Faster air travel would make the world a little bit smaller.”  
  
“Aye, it may yet turn up so do not lose hope on that front.”  
  
“It still worries me a great deal that somebody out there is looking for that kind of tech, that sort of game-changing advantage. If the Garleans got hold of it, it would just widen the gap between our military capabilities that much further. I’m not really knowledgeable about tactics but it seems to me that we ought to try and prevent anyone from having any advantage over us, whether we’re actively at war or not.”  
  
“Has anyone told you how honed your perceptions are? I know you have very little interest in matters of politics but if you ever committed yourself to the cause you would find that you have an innate ability to see the obvious things that others overlook. It’s very useful.”  
  
“I know people, how they think and what they want, what they are willing to do to get it. But I wouldn’t know how to give it to them.”  
  
“Well, I will continue to take advantage of your counsel so long as you continue to grant it.”  
  
“I could offer you more than free advice if you want..” she suggested playfully. Though their discussion covered topics of importance, the seriousness of it all was beginning to bore her.  
  
“Let’s try to keep things professional while in this room,” he cautioned her in an even tone.  
  
“That’s not what I..” his rebuke momentarily disoriented her. She was confused, had he not paid her a compliment, was she not allowed to return in kind? Finally she reached the matter that was weighing her down the most, “I had another political matter on my mind when I came in here.”  
  
“Oh?”  
  
“What would it take for me to join the Temple Knights?”  
  
“Other than a miracle? I have a lot of influence at my disposal but convincing both Houses to pass the required legislation to allow for it is nearly impossible. At least right now while there are bigger priorities on the agenda.”  
  
“But Ser Handeloup and I worked so well together.”  
  
“I know..”  
  
“What about Lucia, she was an outsider was she not?” Venice’s voice began to rise with desperation.  
  
“Venice,” he put up a hand to stop her, a painful expression crossed his face. He closed his eyes for a second, “She was an exceptional case. And she converted.”  
  
“Ah, I suspected that might be the main problem,” she flopped down into one of the chairs nearby, feeling completely deflated. “Who would I have to speak to in the House of Commons or House of Lords?”  
  
“Anyone who would be willing to advocate for you and I am sure most would jump at the chance to represent our most lauded hero,” he sighed. “I do not wish to get your hopes up. It would be a prolonged process, made longer still as long as the Inquisition remains a legal institution. If you want to make an effort on that front then you should speak with Lord Artoirel about it.”  
  
“Well, that’s easy,” she said with relief. “Why did you make it sound so dismal?”  
  
“Nothing about Ishgard’s politics is straightforward, as you will soon discover for yourself,” he folded his hands and looked at her, “I would like nothing more than to have you under my command, know that I am not trying to dissuade you but to prepare you for a hard fight that you will not enjoy. This means a lot to you, I can see it in your eyes. But you should not rush to find a priest, if that is what you’re thinking about doing. You should not convert on a whim to the will of the Fury.”  
  
“I appreciate all of your honesty, truly. A good friend doesn’t sugar coat things and you’ve never led me astray,” her frown faded as an epiphany struck her. “What if..what if I could help the Temple Knights in an unofficial capacity?”  
  
“Don’t you already do that as a Scion?”  
  
“Yeah but, just me, on my own? Like a private investigator, taking on cases that you haven’t got the time or resources for. When I’m in Ishgard, of course. Obviously I will still have responsibilities to the Alliance that will take me away from time to time.”  
  
“That might work though there is no precedent,” he leaned back to consider her proposal. “I’m sure we could iron out the details as we go along.”  
  
“Do we have a deal then?” she extended her hand across the desk.  
  
Instead of shaking it, he kissed the back of her hand gingerly, “I believe we do.”  
  
“That’s not very business-like,” she said with a hint of embarrassment.  
  
“It is a perfectly appropriate response for forming an arrangement with a lady,” he gave a coy grin. She didn’t immediately withdraw her hand, “And besides...judging by the redness gathering around your small, round ears, I would wager it did not displease you.”  
  
“My ears may be smaller than yours but that doesn’t mean they are _small_!” she protested, feeling the warmth in her face subside. He wasn’t wrong, he rarely was. Perhaps the serious business talk was wearing thin on him as well.  
  
The double standard should have bothered her a great deal. It was his office, he could break his own rules if he wished, there were so few other places where he could do as he pleased. For a man with so much power, he had very little freedom. She would not be the one to deny what little was his own. If he needed that clear distinction between personal and professional life then she would respect it, she did not wish to do anything that would make him uncomfortable.  
  
“I suppose I should look into finding another place to stay if this is the way of things going forward,” she said thoughtfully. “It wouldn’t do much for the look of impartiality if I remained at yours. And I wouldn’t want to get in your way.”  
  
“Aye, I believe that makes sense. Finding a suitable residence might be difficult since you’re not always in the city,” his expression was neutral.  
  
“I’ll work something out,” she said with mock confidence.  
  
“If I recall, you agreed to prepare dinner tonight. It sounds like it will be our last for quite some time.”  
  
“Yeah..” she had forgotten that promise, truth be told. “I’ll have to make something extra special.” She got up to leave then. Before she could take another step, she timidly asked, “Do you really want me to leave?”  
  
A quiet sadness hung over them.  
  
“No,” he whispered.  
  
“Neither do I want to go.”  
  
Another long, silent pause.  
  
“Maybe you’re wrong, Venice. Maybe we’ve hurt the Empire so bad that this is the beginning of its end. Though it sounds unlikely it is still a possibility. We should take full advantage of this respite while it lasts. Have the costs of your other victories been so high that you cannot allow yourself to enjoy an easy win when it comes?”  
  
“I don’t want to set either of us up for disappointment..” She appreciated his efforts to lure her back but it was the right decision, even if it hurt. _Especially_ because it hurt so much.  
  
“I’ll see you tonight. We can discuss this further then, if that is your wish.”  
  
\---  
  
Venice was beginning to take a liking to her small inn room. Though it was sparsely furnished and the walls were barely held together in one piece, it had its own charm. Moreover, it was hers, at least for the time being. Each day she checked the noticeboard in the hopes that some temporary lodging would open up within the city proper. The vast majority of her evenings were spent mingling amongst the other residents and patrons of the Forgotten Knight’s upper floor.  
  
“So when is Joyce coming back from her super secret mission?” Venice asked while assessing her cards.  
  
“Hard to say,” Stephanivien de Haillenarte said absently, his blue-green eyes focused intently on his hand.  
  
“You must miss her dearly.”  
  
“Oh yes, the manufactory is a complete mess without her, nobody else knows how to clean a barrel so thoroughly, with such attention to detail.”  
  
“I bet that’s not all she cleans!”  
  
“Venice!” He tried to shush her then looked down upon the Triple Triad board to see his mistake, “Damn it, that was the corner I was going to play Estinien in.”  
  
“Nobody puts Estinien in a corner,” she grinned, they laughed boisterously together.  
  
“For someone who hasn’t played in awhile, you have a tendency to win,” he said. “Mayhaps we should take a break.”  
  
“Well, I do have a few things I wanted to ask you while you’re here.”  
  
“Go on.”  
  
“This carbine that you’ve given me is in functional condition,” she began cautiously. “But it has too many faults for my liking. I would not fully trust in it if I were to chase down a villain with innocent bystanders nearby. The trigger gets stuck sometimes, it doesn’t always cool quickly enough, the recoil time is too great..”  
  
“I know, it was the best we could do on short notice. Usually Joyce handles equipment acquisition and we are too strapped now to provide the quality our machinists are due,” he sighed. “When Hilda joins us, you should ask for her input.”  
  
“She is running late, isn’t she?”  
  
“In the meantime, I might know a supplier though I am loathe to recommend her. It will take you out of your way, she is.. reclusive and difficult to work with at times,” he picked through his pockets and pulled forth what looked like a miniature leveplate. He handed it over to Venice, “Calls these things business levecards or some such. Anyway, there’s an address on one side for the Mists. Despite her social faults, she knows her guns very well. You could do worse.”  
  
“Thanks, I’ll be sure to check her out when I’m in that neck of the woods again.”  
  
“I don’t think I can wait for Hilda much longer, I promised my siblings we’d go to a show tonight. Maybe next time we play I’ll provide you with more of a challenge,” he separated his deck from Venice’s then got up to leave, nodding towards the bar as he did so, “Have a good evening, Venice. I believe you’re about to.”  
  
She followed his gaze and saw two figures at the bar engaged in a deep discussion.  
  
“May I take my lord’s cloak?” she said in the most posh, stuck up voice she could produce.  
  
“Venice, what a delight it is to see you,” Aymeric greeted her with one of his most famous smiles, “Your accent still needs some serious work.”  
  
“I didn’t ask for your opinion,” she said with indignant derision, trying not to laugh at her own terrible acting skills.  
  
“You’re the only one who doesn’t,” he mused. “I was just conferring with Lord Gibrillont here about some Temple Kight business.”  
  
“Bullshit, you wanted an excuse to see me,” she claimed brazenly.  
  
“Is that such a bad thing?” he motioned for her to sit next to him. When she did so, she gave him the customary hug which her earlier ruse had failed to provide, “I’ll cover the Warrior of Light’s tab for tonight.”  
  
“You’re either brave or foolish,” she whistled.  
  
“I’ve been known to be both.”  
  
“In that case, I’ll have your most expensive drink,” she instructed the barkeep.  
  
“As you wish, my lady,” he laughed then produced an aging, dust-ridden bottle of brandy.  
  
“Ugh, this is awful,” she said after one sip. Her insides churned at the very smell of the liquid.  
  
“Now who is being either brave or foolish?” Aymeric said, toasting with his own glass of white wine.  
  
_Tou-fucking-ché._  
  
“I do believe that bottle came from Limsa Lominsa, the Admiral was not particularly fond of it either.”  
  
“Aye, it was part of an exchange. We sent one of our worst back, a bottle of red that succumbed to that nasty fungus right after the Calamity struck,” Gibrillont added. “My kind of diplomacy.”  
  
“How goes the house hunting?” Aymeric enquired once they were left alone.  
  
“Not great,” she admitted. “I’m thinking of looking at Idyllshire next.”  
  
“So far afield?” he looked distressed by the suggestion.  
  
“It's a free city that would suit me well. I reckon many unsavoury types pass through it looking for information or similar, it would be an ideal location to keep an eye on travellers.”  
  
“All good points. But you won’t be leaving too soon will you?”  
  
“I’m still right here,” she smiled, patting his arm. “If you haven’t got any plans tonight, mayhaps you’d like to play some cards? I’m trying to get back into form.”  
  
“I think I remember the rules but I haven’t got a deck of my own.”  
  
“You can use mine, we’ll shuffle and draw from the same cards. Should keep the playing field relatively even.”  
  
\---  
  
“While I won’t ask you to go easy on me, I should forewarn you that I am relatively new to this game,” he said while examining his spread.  
  
He frowned for a moment then played his first card in one of the corners: Hraesvelgr. _Beginner’s luck_ , she thought. She countered easily with her highly prized Alphinaud & Alisaie card. He promptly placed down Nidhogg, the source of his earlier reaction, then proceeded to win every game from that point on. She couldn’t believe it, it wasn’t even skill so much as he kept managing to get all the high-point cards, he didn’t even seem too interested in longterm strategies or the point values at all, finding the artwork of each card far more intriguing.  
  
They had one of their typically laid back conversations while they played. She explained how she acquired each card, who the characters and creatures were meant to be, and gave other tidbits of knowledge related to her vast adventures. Despite losing, she found herself enjoying his company too much to worry much about her reputation.  
  
After awhile, Venice got up to retrieve their drinks just as she had multiple times that evening: a tankard of dark ale for her, a wine glass full of sweet grape-flavoured cordial for him. He had a rule about not drinking more than a single glass of alcohol in public, she surmised it made sense for someone who had to maintain their public image at all times.  
  
When she reached the table, she enacted her plan. Having lost enough rounds that night, she decided that it wouldn’t hurt to at least look at his hand and devise an actual well-informed strategy. She placed the drinks down slowly, trying to catch a quick glimpse but he instantly pulled his cards tightly to his chest while thanking her for taking her turn. Well, then. Lucky for Venice, she had a contingency plan to fallback on.  
  
Before returning to her seat opposite, she leaned over and audaciously moved into give him a kiss, nothing intense, merely a cheeky peck meant to catch him off guard. Again she failed to to see his cards, for he had placed all five face down on the table. And in that moment, she realised she had failed to develop a secondary contingency for there was nowhere else to go.  
  
She looked into his pale blue eyes, nearly able to see her own reflection within. He kissed back with more fervour, seemingly emboldened by the breaking of the ice which she had initiated. It wasn’t an elaborate or even overly passionate gesture. It was simply a long overdue pressing of the lips that felt like it lasted an eternity. She could taste the wine he had had several bells before. His hand ran up her side, along her back, eventually settling on cradling the nape of her neck, one thumb pressed deliberately against her earlobe while the rest of his fingers were buried beneath her hair. The other arm looped around her lower back, keeping her well-balanced in his lap.  
  
Neither the politician nor the heroine cared what anyone else made of their open display. It would have made for strange viewing anyway, he in a typical Ishgardian three-piece suit and she in her strange, brightly coloured fabrics; they were worlds apart from one another. But they had just as much in common, if not moreso than they had differences. The reformist and the revolutionary had spent most of their lives trying to make the world a better place for everyone else, maybe it was time they did the same for each other.  
  
A beeping sound interrupted the moment. A linkpearl. She touched her ear, brushing against his hand but nothing happened. He pulled away to touch his own instead. Venice couldn’t hear what was said but she knew she was in for disappointment.  
  
“Understood. I’ll be on my way soon,” he said.  
  
Venice detangled herself from his grasp with great reluctance, “What’s going on?”  
  
“Duty calls, my love,” he said with a heavy sigh, not quite wanting to believe it.  
  
There was no apology. He had spent most of his life apologising for the mistakes of others, finding the middle ground that nobody else could see. He was an advocate of peace, a negotiator, a reformist but the one thing he would not compromise on was his service to Ishgard. She couldn’t begrudge him for adhering to his principles.  
  
“Is there anything I can help with?” She knew the answer, she had drank too much that evening to be of use to anyone.  
  
“I can handle this one. Be sure to give Lord Gillibront his coin, will you?” He placed a few silver pieces down on the table, she nodded. He tried to turn his dour expression into something more positive, “We should do this again sometime.”  
  
“Which: the cards or the kissing?”  
  
“Both,” he walked over to her, cupped her head in his hands, and gently kissed her forehead.  
  
After that, he reached for his soulcrystal, instantly changing from dapper gentleman to fully armoured knight. She wouldn’t have minded seeing what he looked like without either set on.  
  
“May the Fury protect you,” the words filled her mouth before she could process them. When had she ever invoked the Fury’s name?  
  
“May She look after you as well,” he said immediately, giving her one final, longing stare before turning on his heel to depart. His cloak swirled around him in dramatic fashion as he set off to save his city once again.  
  
Venice could feel the pangs of disappointment growing as she watched him leave. She had sampled a taste but she needed more. She wanted to feel his bare hands against her skin, wanted to run her fingers through the tantalising curls that crested his cheeks, to feel the pressure of his thighs pressing upon hers. She longed to waltz her fingers along his chest, to feel it rise and fall as his breath hastened. She would continue the procession as she lightly traced the outline of that mortal scar further down, down..  
  
“Left you high and dry, did he?” the barkeep interrupted her daydream.  
  
She snapped out if it, feeling her cheeks blushing profusely. Grudgingly she went to the bar to pay for the drinks. While there, an unassuming lute leaning against some shelves in the back caught her eye for the first time.  
  
“Hey does that thing still work?” she asked Gibrillont, ignoring his previous indiscretion.  
  
“Who knows, you’re welcome to tune it but please don’t scare off my late-night customers if you aren’t any good.”  
  
“I know what I’m doing,” He handed it over and she took the wooden instrument to a chair by the fireplace so she could see the condition of its strings. Muscle memory came back to her as she tested the integrity of each one. She played a few scales, the sound wasn’t great but it wasn’t terrible either.  
  
“Hey do you to take requests, darling?” a random, inebriated knight asked.  
  
She hesitated. It had been nearly a decade since she had played with her band, never had she played for an audience solo.  
  
“I don’t know any local songs,” she said truthfully.  
  
“That’s alright! We’ll sing, you play along,” he said. The knight’s mates cheered him on. Then, without waiting for approval, they launched into a series of marching songs with way more gusto than was necessary.  
  
Memories of the recent excursion into Dravania came to her then, perhaps she did recognise some of the songs. The sense of camaraderie, of belonging to a greater good, of having a noble purpose, it was intoxicating. Her fingers began to pluck the strings of their own accord, the sensation completely cathartic.  
  
Her mind drifted further, to the kiss from that very night. It was like being struck by lightning, they had finally broken through the invisible barrier that had shrouded their deepest desires. She continued to strum her instrument in tune with the knights. Had he accidentally called her his love? Surely he had meant to say “my friend”.  
  
Strumming, still strumming. A warmth spread through her every being. How long had she repressed her creative spirit, how free she felt to unleash it all again, how truly alive she was.


End file.

When Aymeric caught up with Hilda, the young woman was in a right panic.

“Where’s everybody else?” she asked in disbelief.

“I was closest,” he answered, rather reluctant about the current state of affairs. “Where’s the fire?”

“What fire..” she looked around frantically. “Oh, you’re not usually the funny type.”

He supposed spending a relaxing evening with Venice had rubbed off on him in more ways than he could have anticipated. He tried a steadier approach, “What happened?”

“Well, there was this mugging, right? Except now I’m beginning to suspect it was staged because when I went to help the poor woman, who I definitely didn’t recognise, there was an armed robbery a couple of streets over. The baker chewed me out pretty hard when I got there.

Anyway, turns out there have been a string of incidents like that, each occurring after a patrol has passed the affected location. Too many coincidences leaves me to suspect that somebody is leaking Watch roster information or somehow stealing it to exploit our weaknesses for..whatever reason. I don’t know, you’re better at figuring out the why of things.”

“What does your gut say about the motive?” he asked.

“What does my.. ser, did you hit your head tonight? You’re usually more about protocols and procedure, logic, all that practical sort of shit.”

“How many robberies happened tonight that you know of?”

“Three but not all patrolmen have checked in yet.”

“This is highly irregular, even for the Brume. But why call it in rather than wait until morning?” He couldn’t see any immediate problems unfolding around them.

“Did I interrupt something important?” Hilda enquired, raising an eyebrow.

“Hilda, I’m here now. What do you need of me?”

“There are a lot of peculiarities, too many for my liking. But also, I noticed something strange near the Apothecary, a terrible smell. I know, I know but there was one odour in particular that stood out. Somebody is collecting materials used for high-potency explosives.”

“Are you certain?”

“Aye, and that shop wasn’t anywhere near the other targets. I thought maybe we should see if these common thieves have bigger goals in mind.”

“So walk me through the mugging from earlier in the night. What specifically makes you think it was staged?”

“The timing, the way the lady didn’t want to report it, the way I can’t find either of them after searching all night. The man who tried to shake her down was using a carbine but it wasn’t like one of ours and didn’t look like a Limsan gun either. There was a strange glowing light around the barrel, like one of them Allagan artefacts. The baker said he saw something similar when he was robbed so it stands to reason the pair were working together, right?”

“Mayhaps,” he began to pace, trying to process all of the information, trying to determine which further questions to ask. Again, it struck him that there was a distinct lack of immediate danger. Hilda was clearly worked up, showing signs of paranoia and general fear, he couldn’t leave her in that state.

She took a sharp breath then looked down at her boots, a half-defeated expression crossed her petite face, “Two crimes at the same time, I couldn’t witness both. It was a diversion damn it, and I fell for it.”

“They don’t sound like common thieves with tactics like that, nor do they sound local,” Aymeric said helpfully, effortlessly resting a hand upon her shoulder. If he was beginning to feel overwhelmed by how much had occurred in such a short period of time then she was definitely shouldering more than her fair share. He waited for her to deduce their next move.

“Aye, but now we can do the same thing,” she said with excitement, the epiphany striking her hard and fast. “I want to figure out what’s up with smell. You could hang back in case they come back or try to leave, assuming it’s even connected. Or back me up if something else goes wrong; which, given tonight’s history, is a distinct possibility.”

Under normal circumstances, it would have been up to him to devise a plan. The best way for Hilda to deal with her fear was to confront it head on and he wouldn’t begrudge a competent subordinate for taking the initiative from time to time. The slumbering night was turning into restless early morning, if the suspects knew they were being watched they would not reveal themselves when the sun was up.

As for the logistics, he would have preferred to trade roles. Hilda was better dressed for sulking about the streets without drawing too much attention whereas he was perhaps the most famous face in all of Ishgard. Regardless, it brought him little comfort to watch her go.

Rather belatedly, he had wished he had encouraged Venice to come along. For his part, he chose to take a look out between two buildings with just enough of a view to see both ends of the street, the only possible paths to reach the one building in question.

He didn’t hold his breath, or at least consciously think he had; it was supposed to be a quick check of the premises and an apologetic laugh about wasting his time. But the fiery explosion which rocked the adjoining area after Hilda rounded the corner had left him breathless.

Immediately, he ran after her, sword drawn, cloak billowing behind him.

There was no time to take in the raining timbers or the splattering of shattered bricks which had once made up the two story building nestled between two equally unassuming pieces of residential property. The only shouts came from bystanders awoken by the noise, not from within the building itself. Or so he hoped.

When he found her again, she was crumpled against a wall, conscious and relatively unharmed. Her breathing was sharp, her red eyes seemed unfocused, but she was alert  enough to take his outstretched arm. He helped her to her feet then caught sight of a figure moving near the back where the debris had been pushed furthest away.

The mysterious man (or woman) in black garb took off in the opposite direction, moving as if their feet didn’t touch the ground. He gave chase, wishing he had stopped to grab a bow or even Hilda’s strange firearm. No time. The streets were blissfully empty but wouldn’t remain as such for long. There was a shrill scream, a woman pinned to the wall by the desperate assailant, a thin dagger’s edge pressing into the skin of her neck.

“Don’t!” he proclaimed, recognising the signs of a potential hostage situation; perhaps the fiend wanted to exchange her life for something. Wrong. He couldn’t have been _more_ wrong.

The figure looked over their shoulder while the extended blade dug into their victim’s throat, too startled by the closing gap with their pursuer to entertain the notion of a parley. They made off again in a cloud of smoke, seemingly into thin air while their victim’s body fell lifelessly to the stone street. The cut was merciful and quick though the spurting blood displayed a terrifying scene. Nonetheless, Aymeric knelt by the woman, her final expression one of abject horror. He would have called for a conjurer’s aide but it was far too late for the power of holy magicks.

“No. _Why_?” he whispered to no one. There was no sense to be made, the killing had been completely unnecessary. The woman had simply been in the would-be suspect’s path of destruction, nothing more than collateral damage. It had all taken place in morning twilight as well, he scarcely believe he’d witness the likes of such ruthless villainy.  “May you find eternal peace in the Fury’s embrace.”

The innocent’s husband, a well-dressed merchant, arrived shortly thereafter.

“Why didn’t you save her? What kind of lord commander lets this happen?” he cried out, pushing him aside.

“I couldn't get here in time, I’m so sorry for your loss.”

Another day, another apology to make, another letter of condolence to ink.

“Save your empty words. This city was safer when the Archbishop was still with us.”

Aymeric flinched, as if the man had backhanded him in the face.

“I swear to you, we will bring the perpetuar to justice. By the Fury, I will not rest until we do.”

“What will I tell my son? Will your oaths make up for the loss of his mother?”

“No..”

He turned his back to the grieving father and husband, making his way back towards the charred remains of the building that had produced the unknown villain. Hilda was leaning heavily against some unused building materials, favouring one leg over the other.

“Are you alright, ser?” she asked, genuine concern pouring forth from her ruby eyes.

Was _he_ alright? She was the one who had survived a blast of who knew what at close range. He wanted to answer truthfully, had the question came from Venice he might have done so. The mask of duty fell then, for which he was silently grateful.

“The family will not have to agonise as we try to determine the cause of the victim’s death, there is small comfort in that.”

Venice had asked why his people were so unphased by the concept of death, as if their insensitivity were an abnormality. He wished that were the case but experience had taught him long ago to not dwell on what he could not change. Ruminations could come after the suspect was brought into custody.

“What do you need me to do?” Hilda asked, trying to keep emotion from creeping into her voice.

“Get yourself checked over by one of the chirurgeons first and foremost. If you are up to it, and there is nothing pressing left to do here, return to the Congregation so we can sift through what evidence there is. This has been the second brazen attack in the last couple of days, I would not wait for a pattern to emerge while we are still able to piece together what has gone wrong. We must move as swiftly as we are able.”

He did not mention that he suspected that public support for their investigations was already beginning to wane. Somehow he had to find a way to push his emotions aside while images of the stunned woman’s expression, her husband sobbing while cradling her lifeless body to his chest, the encroaching bystanders’ fearful whispers, played out over and over. It was a knight’s duty to serve and protect the weak, the Temple Knights had to be seen doing something so that panic would not determine their next move.

\---

By the next morning, his head was swimming with possible theories about recent events. He couldn’t stop thinking about how quickly the assailant had dispatched their victim, it was rare to see the use of such cowardly weapons in a city full of proud spears and swords; the absence of honour was abhorrent. The murderer’s armour definitely looked Eastern, was it too much of a coincidence that they had apprehended a Doman thief not but a week before?

The boy had proven himself an asset since then, helping map out the lower reaches of the city which he described as being used by various criminal groups that had been left unchecked in exchange for a reduction in his sentence. He hoped that the amiable relationship would continue so that he might learn enough Hingan from the boy to write up his future trade drafts in both languages.

The sounds of the bustling streets tore him away from the grisly images which had stolen his sleep, the spot of his favourite morning ritual came into view: a meager open-air cafe on the corner of two streets near the Brume. The location was perfect for unscripted catch-ups with the locals, whether they be constituents or other honourable members, all going about their own private routines, engaging in candid conversations free of hidden agendas. It was one of the few places he could be himself, just another member of the public.

That particular morning, one of the small outdoors tables was occupied by a welcome sight. Venice Lysander, Warrior Light, was tucking into a giant-sized breakfast, nearly oblivious to his presence. When he approached, she motioned for him to join her, too busy gorging herself to do much else.

“Good morning, you’re looking..”

“Please, I look like shit,” she stopped him. “I feel like shit too.”

“You’re up rather early,” he admitted.

“Not because I want to be. Should have taken the damn linkpearl out. Do you know how loud those things can get? Damn Scion business, interrupting my, _admittedly_ , self-imposed vacation. Alright, maybe I’ve been avoiding them but that’s still a rude way to send a message.”

He ordered a Coerthan tea with birch syrup so that she could continue her venting without further interruption. Venice’s temper was charming in its own way, a reminder of how raw she could be when she wasn’t having to put on airs or filter herself for respectable company. She possessed an untamable passion unlike anything he had seen, a quality he deeply admired to the point of casual envy.

As she continued her onslaught of complaints, he tried his best to keep up with the colourful vocabulary she had acquired in her myriad travels. Venice could deftly wield about profanities and slang as if they were weapons of war. Listening to her was both alarming and highly educational.

“You kept drinking after I left, didn’t you?”

“Aye,” she looked embarrassed for her current state. “Now I have to hurry up and get sober to see whatever wonderful thing Arenvald has stumbled across. Then I’ll no doubt get roped into playing as Lyse’s shiny trophy lackey while she gets in over her head once again. Gods, I don’t want to return to the heat. And the sand. And the sense of hopelessness. I can hear the locals whinging already..” she guzzled down a freshly poured glass of orange juice. “I’m so sorry for dumping this on you. It seems I’ve lost whatever manners I had developed since coming here.”

“It’s quite alright, if you must depart soon then I am glad to have the chance to see you off. After last night..” He trailed off, he hadn’t much time to think on it but with her sitting right there in front him it was impossible to ignore what had occurred during their last meeting.

“I won’t mince words, what happened last night was something special,” her voice lowered, her anger dissipated entirely. “I don’t...don’t want to identify what is happening between us because to name it is to give it form. And once something has form, it can be taken away.”

“I hardly know what to make of it myself.”

It was the truth, he had made a poor bid to explain himself at Anyx Trine. He did not require that she find a way to express herself in kind, only that she felt free to say whatever she wanted. The mutual affection had been there, it was possible that that was _all_ it would amount to. His life was a whirlwind of conflict and resolution, not knowing where he stood with Venice in the midst of it was absolutely maddening, moreso because he couldn’t convince himself what he wanted from her. All he knew for certain was what he wanted _for_ her.

While he had been bursting to tell her how he felt, he had not meant to entrap her wild spirit in the process. He could have found a better way to tell her how beautiful she was, how much he valued her as an independent person rather than as the hero everyone else wanted her to be, how much he looked forward to being around her whenever possible. Instead, he had nearly asked her to turn away from what she did best because he could not bear losing her, how overbearing he must have appeared then.

It was a bridge too far, no wonder she didn't know how to react. He was not accustomed to such selfish thoughts or emotions, he had long since given up his personal well-being for the sake of uplifting others. He was chained to the demands of Ishgard, practically betrothed to her whims, but his heart was beginning to yearn for a more tangible source of devotion.

“Well, I won’t leave you in the dark,” she continued, reaching out to touch his leg just above the knee. He couldn’t quite feel the light touch through his armour. The intention was clear,”I care about you a lot, probably more than anyone else. We’ve been through so much together. That is a fact, regardless of any other uncertainties. So, whatever comes next.. I don’t know but you shouldn’t be left wondering on that point. Not like I once was.”

There were many deaths which hung over her; Haurchefant’s by far outweighed the rest. He knew it without her speaking of him in direct terms. There had been no time to grieve, for either of them. But there she sat, finally with enough time for her actions to catch up to her all at once, she was bound to reflect upon that point her life at great length. No doubt she blamed herself, as he had done. How cruel it seemed that the one event that had connected them most had been the loss of a tremendous friend, mayhaps the only friend either of them had had at certain times.

He had been so sure they were lovers at one stage. When he discovered that they weren’t, that she had only recognised the signs after the fact, he was appalled by the gross unfairness of it all. Aymeric did not wish to think ill of Haurchefant, but to leave Venice languishing like that, eternally wondering what could have been, was purely disrespectful. Though her pain was agnostic to his intentions, it was real enough. It caused her to hesitate about loving another, it kept her at a distance from those who would call themselves her friends.

He liked to imagine that out of that dreadful moment, something new had been given life. She would move on eventually, as carefree as the wind, never staying in any one place for too long. He would cherish and make the most of her company while it lasted. There was no reason he should expect otherwise.

_Fury forgive me, I only wish to make her whole._

Her dark green eyes watched him, full of mystery and wild tales, as vibrant as the spring crystals which grew on the floating isles high above in the Sea of Clouds. The impending parting did not upset him as much as her spontaneous need to find her own place had done previously. She was regularly at the beck and call of the rest of the realm, though he noticed it was ultimately her own desire to go that took her away, not the need to fulfill the commands of others. How quiet the manor had gone without her presence, he barely knew what to do with himself without her there.

“Aymeric?” she asked quietly, her hand had not moved.

“Yes?”

“You’ve gone really quiet..”

“I was trying to memorise your face before you left, I do not have any portraits of you at home,” he stumbled over his words, thinking on his feet. Her caramel, sunkissed skin went pink in the cheeks.

As bungled as his attempt to say is his piece had been, it was still honest and pure. Her own response was hardly any clearer though he appreciated her efforts all the same. They were right back to fumbling in the dark.

“Well, I hope you’re not memorising how much of an arse I’ve been this morning. I do wish I could have given you more fair warning.

“You’re fine, stop worrying so damn much,” If it had been in his power to remove all her ails, he would have done so in a heartbeat. “This may be what you need, you’ve had time to think. Now it is time to act. To be a Warrior of Light again.”

“Aye,” she patted his leg then got up. “You might be right. Try not to get into too much trouble while I am away, alright?”

Had she not been made aware of the events that had transpired over the previous night? He didn’t see the need in drawing her attention to it, better to let her depart in high spirits than worry about him. If the Fury was kind, the rest of the city wouldn’t yet be privy to the details either, granting him precious time to get ahead of the story.

“I can manage the fort in your absence,” he leaned over to embrace her, she gave him a small kiss on the cheek while hugging him back. He would have held onto her forever if he could. “May the Fury keep you safe.”

\---

The second time he was forced to come to Hilda’s timely rescue couldn’t have been any more different than the last. She had been like a hound with a bone trying to find any sign of the armed robbers that were intent on upstaging her and the Watch. They were no closer to discovering how the outsiders had gotten into the city or why they were interested in disrupting the populace.

The Inquisition had grown more impatient with each passing day. Not caring to ask the illuminating questions, they had set out a bounty for the heads of the firearm-wielders. In so doing, they had sown distrust in the ranged weapon’s future and cast a shadow over the usefulness of the Watch.

It should not have been a great surprise to find the leader of the Machinists’ Guild pinned down beside the reckless Watch leader, a small device held in one hand while his own carbine was poised at the sound of the newcomer’s heavy footsteps.

“Lord Aymeric,” Lord Stephanivien de Haillenarte greeted him with a wry smile, lowering the barrel. In the distance, more shots could be heard, Hilda too busy returning fire to take notice that her call had been answered. “And Ser Muscadain is it?”

“Aye, there should be more knights arriving soon,” the Elezen with the amethyst eyes said.

“Hopefully they will be unnecessary, I would rather not disrupt current patrols until this is resolved,” Aymeric added. “What of the Watch?”

“I had a similar thought, in case this goes further south. We should keep the normal routes covered. Besides, four of us ought to be enough to chase a couple of rats out of their den,” Hilda said, motioning for the others to keep low. She didn’t meet Muscadain’s eye but she seemed reassured by his presence all the same.

It wasn’t exactly the group composition Aymeric would have preferred, there were no mages to watch their backs, neither the supportive nor destructive variety. He should have put more faith in the new tech that his colleagues advocated but he had no run enough missions with the Watch to know the full extent of their capabilities.

The shots coming from their opponents began to thin in their numbers, the silence between each burst grew longer.

“They’re pulling back,” Lord Stephanivien surmised, Aymeric did not find himself in disagreement with the assessment. “Probably means there’s not a lot of decent cover between here and wherever they are going.”

“Oh no they don’t, I’m not giving up that easily,” Hilda barked out while touching a switch on the device hanging from her belt. A moderate explosion sent fire and smoke towards them, pushed on by the strong winds of an oncoming blizzard, momentarily obscuring their vision.

“Well done, you gave them a smoke-screen to slip out behind, as if the storm didn’t provide sufficient cover already,” Ser Muscadain said with mock applause.

“Shut up,” she seethed.

“Is anyone familiar with the layout down there?” Lord Stephanivien asked insightfully, pointing towards the narrow corridor which fed into one of the maze-like lower levels.

“Moderately,” Aymeric offered. All he knew came from Shen’s crudely drawn maps which he had been poring over earlier that afternoon along with Venice and Ser Handeloup’s generic descriptions from their recent excursion into the depths.

“How long before you can redeploy that turret, Hilda?” the young lord asked, his tone entirely casual, proving again that he was the most knowledgeable member of the group. Aymeric didn’t mind a civilian with combat expertise taking control of the situation, whether directly or not, but did not relish having to explain it to the count of House Haillenarte after the fact.

“Couple of minutes, should be ready by the time we’ve set up again.”

“Good, we can establish some crossfires when we have a better idea of what we’re dealing with.”

“How many targets are there?”

“Two for sure, possibly three. Likely more than that if they’re luring us towards some place in particular.”

“And you assume they are all using these.. kind of.. rapid-fire weapons?”

“Seems that way.”

Aymeric looked over at Muscadain with his shield and sword drawn, conditioned to engage in the old-fashioned style, the knight watching their flank, ready to respond to his lord’s orders. Times had changed, tactics would have to follow suit. Stephanivien and Hilda also looked expectantly up at him.

“Right, their withdrawal has coincided with our reinforcements, whether they realise it or not. We can assume they have a more defensible position in terrain we are less prepared for so we should not take any unnecessary risks while in territory that favours our enemy. While it may seem foolish to bring a sword to a gunfight, I believe we may yet surprise them.

Lord Stephanivien, if you are committed to aide us then I would kindly ask you to assist Hilda in drawing their fire away, giving us time to move in close. This will also grant us an opportunity to assess their strengths and weaknesses. We will hold off on backup as long as necessary though I will ask that contingent of knights and watchmen be sent forthwith to cut off their ability to escape.

Let us be about it then, the Fury guide our hand.”

He had briefly considered an alternate arrangement with each knight paired to a gunmen but wasn’t sure how well the chemistry of thrusting strangers into such an impromptu pairing would work out. He was also dubious of how much discipline Hilda possessed, she was making a habit of getting into messy situations and still had a long way to go to become the leader he needed her to be. It occurred to him that not every soldier could be as competent as a Temple Knight, something to keep in mind when working alongside the Alliance’s Grand Companies in the future. When there were too many variables, it was best to take point, to trust in himself and hope the rest could keep up; so that is exactly what he did.

Makeshift barricades lend credence to the notion that the marksmen had moved back to their base of operations The darkness he had been anticipating was nowhere to be found, lit torches lined the street corners, the gusting winds created an unsettling howl as they spread amongst the decrepit rubble. The undercity barely looked like a piece of Ishgard’s splendor, he would be sure to have it thoroughly secured afterwards, perhaps repurposed as living quarters for the clamouring outsiders looking to splurge their coin.

While his mind worked out the political possibilities, his eyes were focused on the exchanges of bullets in the distance, he could hear crude insults from their enemies as they goaded the machinists further into their lair. Though his blade was drawn, he tried to keep the blue metal from reflecting the light around him, Muscadain did the same by adopting a defencive stance with his shield held out before him. It wasn’t entirely practical for two men in armour to engage in subterfuge but they made up for speed by relying on roundabout stealth, taking longer paths if it kept them in the shadows.

The wind continued to rustle around them, strange given the enclosed nature of the lower levels. Dust hung over everything as they got closer to their objective, it took him a moment to realise that it was actually snow, the long icicles clinging to the nearby stonework giving away the temperature.

“How is that possible?” Muscadain whispered, echoing his thoughts.

“Perhaps there is a breach of some kind? Though their defences are quite weak, they appear to be well-established otherwise.”

“They could be bringing materials in via airships..”

In response, a mechanical whirring noise screeched over the shouting winds. Two, three more engines roared into life.

“I daresay you may be right.”

“I think we found the Convictory’s stolen mana-cutters,” a voice on the linkpearl suggested.

“Draw them out or we’ll lose them!” he shouted in response. If it had been the first time he gave the order, he might have been more restrained.

The backside of the encampment was left open, guarded by a single young Hyur, cradling his weapon in his arms as if it were a small child, the converter on his belt showcasing a variety of lights and switches looking altogether more complex than anything used by the Machinists’ Guild. He could not discern the mana-cutters locations but was certain they would be near where the storm had made its entrance. There were no cannons or other ballistic craft, only weakly held together scaffolding and oil fixtures.

“How good is your throwing arm?” he asked his fellow knight.

“Not as good as a lancer’s but I can get close enough to knock him off-balance.”

“Keep your Hallowed Ground in reserve. Whenever you’re ready,” Aymeric nodded, mindful of his own defencive abilities. It would be tempting to shield the body right away. At close-range, their opponents would have to be quick on the draw, fully aware of their ricochet potential. They were most vulnerable while closing the gap. Nonetheless, he was prepared to cast Clemency or Intervention if they were required.

The cerulean shield found its target, eliciting a string of curses from its recipient, the hard steel creating a loud clamour against the cobbles.

When the young man was grappled to the ground, Aymeric asked the first question that came to him, ”Whom do you serve?”

“No one! We are free men,” the Hyur touted.

“The people of Ishgard are also free, why do you and your choose to terrorise innocents?”

“I don’t have to answer to you or anyone else.”

“If you cooperate, you will be treated fairly with the full mercy of Ishgardian justice.”

The boy laughed, spitting out his reply, “I know what that means. You’ll get no more from me.”

He had to admit, the Inquisition had turned that noble phrase around to mean brutality of the worst order, even the former Lord Commander had used it as such. Still, he needed answers and the suspect was in the best position to provide them. If he had to wait, so be it.

“Keep a hold on him, I’ll see if we can find more compliancy in his companions,” he said to Muscadain who nodded and pulled the lad to his feet.

“Do you think it wise to proceed on your own?” he hesitated.

“No, but what other option is there? If they reach their ships, this will all have been an exercise in futility. I will be fine.”

“Take my shield, ser. It won’t stop a stray bullet but you may find it useful for another purpose,” he nodded at the kite shield still lying on the ground.

The miscreant continued to struggle against his captor until Muscadain was successful in clamping him in fetters, the cursing continued until a rough punch to the shoulder silenced the lad.

“Thank you. May the Fury grant you patience for I think you will have need of it,” he said as he  scooped up the shield from where it lay, trusting his subordinate to know what to do next.

With shield and sword in hand, he approached the unsuspecting band of thieves. The linkpearl remained silent which was probably for the best because his two civilian comrades had continued to fail at following his simple instructions. The kite shield was large enough to attract unwanted attention, its underside had a clean sheen that bespoke of a lack of heavy use or the over fondness of its owner. He thought the mirror-like quality might be of use in finding his opponents without revealing his own position, more useful than it might have been in actual combat.

His style of fighting was slow, he was neither the swiftest warrior nor the most aggressive, the shield was more of an extra burden than a boon. The iconic long broadsword that he favoured was made up of a medley of battle-tested metals: dazzling larimar, hardened adamantite, trusted steel; ornate as well as practical, the hilt long enough to accomodate two-handed grips when warranted. He preferred to rely on good positioning and deliberate, patient strikes, wearing his opponents down through attrition rather than by overwhelming strength.

In addition to his offensive armaments, every aspect of his clothing and armour was tailored specifically to deal with both day-to-day wear as well as most combat situations. Both shoulders were fully encapsulated within immense pauldrons because an injury to either arm would utterly devastate his technique. On the other hand, his lack of gauntlets allowed for flexibility so he could swap weapon-hands with ease. The cloak acted as misdirection, leaving many enemies ignorant of the cuirass and greaves which lay beneath. When in motion, it could also hide the movement of his limbs, buying him precious time.

To be Ishgard’s most prominent, most unassailable knight had been his longstanding childhood ambition; it did not matter to him what sort of fame or fortune came with such status, only that he was able to serve the Holy See with the very best of his ability. Many regarded his fighting prowess as rivalling that of any member of the former Heaven’s Ward. When he had been granted the single opportunity to test that theory, he had been pitted against all twelve of the holy knights, stripped both of his sword and his pride. Never again.

He paused behind a pile of stones to assess the flow of battle, noting that he could rely more on his sense of sound than sight, each gun or turret shot announcing a body in lieu of a brightly lit beacon. Neither Hilda nor Stephanivien could be seen amongst the maze of wooden planks and disused crates. The puncturing clank of a hypercharged rook turret covered their retreat, an arc of blue lightning zapping at any who would get too close. There were shouts as the two pressed further inwards, pushing the enemy unbeknownst to them towards his safe position, giving him no time to deliberate when he would make his move.

Another chunk of metal was deployed on one of the upper walkways, a bishop turret with a circular firing arc meant to strike many opponents at once or to encourage a group to avoid a particular location. The latter is what it managed to do, continuing the pressure on the thieves, forcing them to back up as a collective unit. If they had done as he had wanted, he would already be busy tearing into individual gunsmen instead of being presented with too many targets at once. What he would have given for Venice’s Holy or Aero spells right then.

The element of surprise was still on his side. He stood between his opponents and their back exit, undaunted with his blade ready to make its first cut, feet set apart in a low, shield stance.

“Were you expecting someone else? Your friend has been detained, as you will be if you wish to give up this deadly game of yours. Let it not be said that the option of surrender was never presented,” he spoke boldly, loudly so that his friends might know his location while they continued their advance. “Lay down your arms and you will be afforded the same amount of clemency.”

They laughed and jeered, though none was ready to pull the trigger in such a narrow space. He counted roughly five or six men, most Hyur with a few Roegadyn in the back, there could have been more out of sight. Judging by their motley attire and burly mannerisms, he suspected they were La Noscean natives.

Instead of cowering behind the shield’s protective girth, he waited until the first man was upon him, throwing the chunk of steel at his shoulder, the one he needed to operate his firearm effectively. The carbine fumbled out of his grasp, a single bright shot snapping off into the ground at his feet, inciting panic amongst the rest. The rush continued but their trigger fingers moved conspicuously away from their comfortable resting places, the guns clutched close to the body as if they might be oblique clubs. While still outnumbered, it was a fair deal more tenable to fight bulky melee combatants.

Since they had denied his plea for disarmament, he saw no reason to hold back. The Temple Knights had secured one living suspect, if the rest could not be disabled then that was a result of their own poor decision-making. He had no qualms killing those who would thwart the arm of justice, even if they had no proven to be murderers themselves. No reason to give them the chance to commit more crimes.

He hacked and slashed his way through despondent limbs, crippling the machinery they were so dependent upon, losing ground as more men poured forth to try to beleaguer his diminishing constitution. As long as he kept his front to them, they could not take him unawares. There were wieldy punches and the occasional boot knife to evade, nothing quite as clean as a countering blade that he could predictably parry. Scrappers only knew how to fight dirty, all he had to do was outlast them.

Two men coordinated their attack to try and flank him, one a towering Roegadyn, the other a tall and lean Midlander who was sneaking around while his mate came burling towards the cautious swordsman, arms swinging madly as he tried to land a powerful punch which might offset his opponent’s balance long enough for the Hyur to do whatever he was intent on doing. Aymeric had to focus his defence against the bigger of the two but would not let the other escape his sight.

In an effort to create distance, he kicked hard at the Roe while swinging his sword in a large side-arc to dissuade his compatriot. The man tried to go for the gap between arm and shoulder armour but the heavy brush with platemail-clad boots had succeeded in delaying his approach. To capitalise on the small gain, Aymeric tried a few broad swipes to test how committed his opponent was to getting close enough to landing a meaningful strike. The Roe backed off but only by a couple of ilms. He looked over at his companion who was just in range of his goal, no time to dissuade the other one.

For a moment, he wished he still had the shield so that he may pry the Hyur off his person. The best he could manage was to remain upright while finishing off the big man, then he could worry about the other one which had latched onto him from behind with all four limbs. Lucky for him, the lean man’s weight was of no consequence as he was still able to maintain a proper Sword Oath stance completely unhindered. 

With one grand push, he was able to thrust upwards with his blade straight into the Roe’s large belly, he had intended to go for the lower ribs where it was easiest to penetrate but the man had swiveled awkwardly in preparation for his next pounding strike. When he tried to pull back, the blade became entangled in the twisted up leather jerkin, requiring two hands and sufficient leverage to work it back out. That left him momentarily disarmed while the Midlander continued to hold on, trying to topple him over. Without the aide of his companion for a distraction, the stranglehold became erratic and desperate.

After another powerful kick, he finally freed his sword from the first man, reversed the grip, then immediately plunged the pointed end blindly behind him, hoping to meet a soft, vital target inside the Midlander. The target was certainly soft and plump, the man’s upper thigh ripped to shreds, the hamstring clipped into tatters which garnered an animalistic yelp. Still the Hyur clung on, grappling with both hands for his foe’s exposed neck. With one hand, he grabbed the man and tossed him aside, gently as he was able, having already landed the crippling blow.

Free at last from the pair’s onslaught, he tried to catch his breath and assess the results of his labours. Five additional bodies were strewn about, still covered in blood and grime, some still gasping for air, most missing limbs or other chunks of dismembered flesh, their garments torn apart, their hopes for victory all but crushed. If there were more men to fight, they had made their respectable exits. His sword and cloak were covered in the blood of his enemies, a mess he could leisurely contend with when all was said and done.

He retrieved the shield from the carnage and tried in vain to find a suitably clean piece of cloth to wipe down his blade as the linkpearl in his right ear chimed back to life.

“That was quite the stunning distraction you created for us. Well done, Lord Commander,” Stephanivien congratulated him, sounding a little too excited and energetic.

“This was not the plan we agreed to,” he responded carefully, trying his best not to criticise while at the same time trying not to condone what had transpired.

“Mayhaps not but while you’ve been busy, we’ve found the prepped mana-cutters. What men remain appear to be making haste towards them now. What would you have us do?”

“Stop them from reaching their ships!” he shouted as if it should have been obvious. Why did he have to do all the work and the strategising? Nevermind transcribing the pile of of paperwork that would surely come afterwards.

“One’s slipped past, I think I can get a shot..” Hilda said, a loud blast shortly followed. She had missed, telling the would-be escapees that their window to leave was rapidly drawing to a close.

 _Damn it all_ , he was simply too far away do anything.

When he made contact with Stephanivien, the first small craft was already in the air, whipping up a ferocious downdraft. Coupled with the raging snowstorm beyond, there was complete chaos as the makeshift defences crumpled and the remaining criminals fought each other for seats in the three remaining vessels.

“Can you fire into the engine somehow, keep it from getting any higher?” he asked the engineer, sounding like he had some knowledge on the subject of blasting flying machines out of the sky. In truth, he had no idea if it was possible for a single carbine to do enough damage.

“I can do one better,” the blond Elezen beamed.

He threw out the ball of mechanical alloys which would unfold to reveal one of his favourite turrets. The prototype deployed midair, fired a few rounds of incendiary, then detonated in brilliant fashion. The affected airship shattered into various pieces, raining destruction down upon its fellows as well as the two lords, one of which could not contain his jubilation.

“Get down you two!” Hilda yelled out unnecessarily, running towards their hiding place. They couldn’t remain close for long, each ship’s fuselage lit up and together created a cascading firestorm which threatened to destroy everything in its path.

“Go, I’ll cover the rear,” Aymeric said, for once grateful that he had recovered Muscadain’s shield. They hurried back towards the steps which led to the thieves’ den, back to where they had started as fast they could.

When the fires had been put out by the church’s thaumaturges and conjurers, there was very little left to the imagination. The ships and their occupants had been eradicated. All that remained was to sift through the wreckage for clues as to the group’s identity and how they had come to breach the undercity, a matter that would have to be resolved immediately by the masons of House Dzemael.

Ser Muscadian had returned with Ser Lucia and a small complement of knights to help dig through the evidence. There wasn’t much to be found save a couple of unopened crates.

“Looks like a group of smugglers to me,” Hilda surmised.

“Aye. Any idea where these crates came from?” Lucia enquired.

“Before everything went down, I found a Roegadyn shifting one of these boxes through the Brume. At first, I thought he looked familiar so I followed. He was trying to avoid detection so I that just made me more curious. Then he started shooting and the rest you more or less know. We should pop one of these open and see what they were trying to hustle.”

“Already ahead of you,” Muscadain said, holding up a dark vial in his steel-covered hands.

“What in the Fury’s name..” Lucia’s eyes went big, she waved a torch over to get a better look and knew almost right away what the vial contained. “Don’t touch anything with your bare hands, especially _that_.”

“Dragon’s blood,” Aymeric said quietly, recognising the ichor more by its heavy, volcanic smell than the rich red colour.

“What would they want with it?” Hilda asked, nearly dreading the answer.

“Hard to say but it wouldn’t be dangerous to anyone outside of Ishgard which leaves some disturbing possible motives.”

He recalled the first time he had encountered the foul liquid amid pristine snow drifts covered in swathes of crimson and death. The bodies of his fellow knights lay still, motionless, freezing as the storm buried their remains, the wyrm corpses gushing their contents amongst their deceased murderers. The sickly, stomach-churning smell, the clinging grime, wyvern scales scattered everywhere, discarded lances sticking out like warding scarecrows warning away any who might offer assistance.

A heavy hand pushing against his shoulder, rolling him over onto his back, a pair of fingers groping to check the pulse against his neck. He opened his eyes to find Estinien hovering over him, having discarded or potentially losing his iconic dragoon helmet in the fight.

“You’re still alive, kid. We need to withdraw before the Horde returns. On your feet, now.”

“Anyone.. else..?” he tried to ask between rasped breaths, too shocked by the cold and the drain of his endurance from the battle to make sense of anything.

“Just us. The Fury favours the strong.”

The rest of the memory faded away but the smell of dragon’s blood did not.

He made his own rounds, trying to determine all he could about the criminals and their operation. Had they wanted to poison the people of Ishgard, they might have been able to do so. In another life, his concern would have been limited to the involvement of crazed heretics but he knew the reality of the dragon’s curse, had seen Estinien’s dreadful transformation into the Shade, had heard of accounts of innocents being forced to consume the blood so that they would become that which all Ishgardians had once despised.

As far as anyone was aware, it was impossible to cure the infection once it took hold, the last  residue of their ancestors’ greed and lust for power. While social and political change was making strides, the physical weakness that ran through all of King Thordan’s descendants would never truly go away. A single drop of dragon’s blood could destroy many lives.

He did not discover anything that readily linked the smugglers to the building which had exploded, nothing that looked like it might be of interest to a cold-blooded shinobi who could kill indiscriminately. So much for making progress on that front. While his own investigation bore no fruit,  the Machinists’ Guild was more than delighted to pore over the gadgets which they had recovered. There was still no sign of Cid’s missing device but threads were leading to its eventual recovery. One problem at a time.

\---

“Why would you do something so stupid?” Ser Muscadain demanded of his half-sister.

“Why didn’t you come when I asked for back up?” Hilda shouted back at him.

They were back at the infirmary, discussing various matters relating to recent investigations. Hilda had managed to injure herself after the cleanup of the smuggler den had begun, tripping over a seemingly benign contraption in the shadows on her way back to the upper level. The sprain she had suffered a couple of nights before turned into a fracture, the fall having done serious damage to her joints and legs. Through her misfortune, the culpable device was recovered and though nobody was certain what it was, it did fit the description of Cid’s latest contraption.

“Can we skip the quintessential sibling bickering for a few moments and go over what we know so far?” Aymeric tried to keep the peace, per usual.

“Sorry, ser,” they said together.

“Hilda suggested she smelled gunpowder at the residence earlier in the evening but who would use such antiquated methods as that? And what triggered the explosion?”

“Are you suggesting I don’t know what I am talking about? I swear by the Fury..”

“On the contrary, I was trying to figure out a motive.”

“There was one casualty inside: a Lalafell tennant who had recently rented the upper floor. Do we know anything about his identity?” He tried once more to steer them back onto the topic at hand.

“Not yet, ser, but we’re working on it.”

“Follow up on that lead for now. Maybe the landlord knows something of value. I will confer with Hilda in the meantime.”

“Yes, ser,” the knight turned to leave then offered one final thought, “Though may I propose one theory: this might have been an accident of some kind. A lone body seems to suggest he is a victim without intent to harm others.”

“I will consider this avenue of thought along with whatever else we come up with. Any ideas to contribute?” The question was for Hilda once her half-brother was gone.

“I just shoot things, Muscadian is better at figuring things out.”

“I know your injury could not be helped by the timing is still very disappointing. I need all the help I can get right now. When you’ve recovered to your fullest, I want you back in the field as soon as possible.”

“Isn’t this the kind of case that Venice could help with?” the half-Elezen offered.

“Aye but she is back in Rhalgr’s Reach now assisting the new Ala Mhigan government. We’ll have to make do without her help for once,” He was not amused by the poor timing but there was no way around it.

“Why does she get all the fun assignments..” Hilda complained with a sigh. He must have given her a stern look because she quickly tried to backpedal with a shift of topic, “Oh, I just remembered I was supposed to meet with her when all this flared up.”

“She sends her regards.”

“So you two _are_ spending off-duty hours together..” she flashed a knowing grin, he couldn’t decide if it made him uncomfortable that everyone seemed to have an opinion on his relationship status all of a sudden. Ishgard was the kind of city where everyone knew everyone else, it could not be avoided for long.

“Pray get better soon, Hilda,” he said in a neutral tone that he often used on the House floor. “And please consider selecting one of your Watch to cover in your stead until all is well again.”

“What about the suspect that got away?” she asked, innocently enough. He hesitated, his failure was still too fresh to speak about.

“All I could determine was that they wore armour similar to that of Lady Yugiri, I do not even know what gender they were or their current whereabouts.”

“Very curious,” she didn’t look that interested, a weariness fell over her.

“We’ll catch up another time, get some rest for now.”

The mysterious assassin was up to potentially two known victims. Though the smuggler operation had been successfully disrupted, he knew not whether another group would take their place or how they were able to get as far as they had. Assassins, smugglers, cultists.. there were too many players crowding the field at once. He was most interested in figuring out what had caused the recent spate of crimes, who was really pulling the strings? The shinobi worried him a great deal, it was the hardest to track or make sense of, a complete anomaly. The two events didn’t have to be related but he couldn’t help but think they were.

How convenient that the Scions had called Venice away when he had the most need of her assistance.


End file.


> The "oh no _he's hot_ " meeting we can assume happens when Estinien eventually shows up again and realizes that time has not conveniently stood still.

He had, admittedly, lost track of time. At first he’d been determined to avoid the Scions—they didn’t need him, and the unsettling twinge in his chest whenever he thought of Alphinaud’s tearful smile wasn’t something he wished to dwell on—but finally it had been too much to bear, and he’d allowed his steps to wander ever closer to their base in Ala Mhigo. If he happened to be in the area for a job, if he coincidentally decided to see the city...well, what of it? He wasn’t _trying_ to bump into anyone he knew. After so many moons, it was doubtful they’d even remember him.

Even as the thought flitted across his mind, he knew it was a lie. _Alphinaud and the Warrior tore Nidhogg’s eyes from me with their bare hands. They will remember me, if their comrades do not. And..._

Specula Imperatoris, falling to pieces. The screams and the fire.

_...’twill be good to see that the boy still hasn’t gotten himself killed._

Ala Mhigo was still the same sandy-brick maze he remembered, but he thought he saw more signs of life. There, colorful awnings replaced Garlean banners; there, a band of children played with marbles on the same bricks he was sure had previously housed the remains of magitek reapers. He kept walking, striding purposefully down side streets as he wound his way closer to the old palace. The council hall and dignitaries’ quarters, now—and also, most conveniently, the place where bulletins would be placed for local adventurers seeking work. He wouldn’t be the only man with a strange weapon and a strange accent at the doors.

When he finally reached the foot of the great staircase, he stopped in confusion. The boards were empty. _Impossible. I refuse to believe a land such as Ala Mhigo has no wandering monsters to be slain!_

A woman’s voice sliced through the air like a knife. “What do you _mean_ , none of these are fit for an adventurer of my caliber?!”

He turned to see an elezen woman haranguing the attending guard, who looked as though he would rather be anywhere but here. Between her mask and her unfamiliar garments—something quilted and fluffy-looking—it was hard to tell, but Estinien had a terrible feeling that he knew her. His suspicion was confirmed when the guard swallowed nervously and stammered, “I can hardly ask a primal-slayer to deal with what our local boys can handle just fine, miss—uh—madame—uh—Scion.”

He was probably expecting her to summon an egi to tear his head off. Estinien felt very little sympathy for him as she reached instead for a weapon he’d seen fell heretic queens. The dismayed, somewhat pouty stare had never worked on _him_ , but it had always distracted Iceheart from their latest argument. Something about guilt. “Well, whyever not? I could handle these while your men refine their skills!”

While he stuttered, Estinien considered. It was risky—though they’d bonded somewhat on the road, he and the Warrior had never been close friends—but she had ever been fond of her leader, and would surely know how he was doing. _If he’s alright, if he thinks of me—_ He squashed that thought ruthlessly. “Because, Warrior of Light, if you slay everything in your path there’ll be no work left for me.”

“Estinien?!” Papers slipped from her grasp with a slithery thump as she spun to stare up at him, eyes wide. “You...”

And then she marched over to him, punched him in the shoulder hard enough that he still felt the impact through his armor, and grabbed him by the elbow before he could mount more than half a defense. “Estinien Wyrmblood you absolute—you useless _kedtrap_ , do you know how long it’s been since we’ve heard anything of your whereabouts?! I was half thinking you’d died, and here you have the nerve to show up in new armor looking hale as anything—Alphy was worried sick when Tataru mentioned she’d heard someone of your description taking on Hells’ Lid!”

It was like facing a small, angry whirlwind. A whirlwind whose clawed gloves were digging quite painfully into his arm. “You should know better than to worry for me.” The knowledge felt like a hot coal. _Alphinaud still worries for me. He still...gods, he’s a fool, but…he_ worries _. About me._

“Alphy doesn’t. You know him.” She was already spinning on her heel, bodily dragging him towards the stairs to the palace. He moved with her, deliberately half a step behind. “C’mon, he’s going to want to see you.” As they passed the guard, she added, “Sorry about the papers, urgent personal matter.”

 _Bullshite he wants to see me, I haven’t bathed in three days and—Fury, it doesn’t matter, I can just see that look on his face now._ That wide-eyed, almost hopeful look that had done such strange things to his chest when he’d first seen it. For some reason, Alphinaud seemed to _care_ about him. _Perhaps it would be better if I stayed away. I can still aid him from afar, I don’t have to…_

But then he wouldn’t get to see his face again. The teary-eyed yet unrestrained joy that had suffused the boy’s features when he’d (finally) woken up had seared itself into his memory; he’d found it swimming across his mind’s eye at the oddest times, and it never failed to set something squeezing painfully around his heart. He’d seen other expressions on Alphinaud’s face—exasperation, admiration, one or twice a very _appraising_ look that was frankly baffling to him—but that one had struck him like a blow. When he thought about it for too long, he half swore he could feel the walls around his heart starting to crack, and he wasn’t entirely sure he could bear their full collapse.

And now he would be facing him again. They hadn’t been this close since he’d taken down the cannon at Castrum Abania, and then there had still been most of the Peaks separating them. He still remembered the chill that had gone through him, later, when he’d learned that the Leveilleurs (and what had Eorzea done to deserve _two_ of them?) had taken to the field—and the relief that followed when he’d learned neither of them had been seriously wounded.

Pride welled up slowly in his heart. _Two liberated nations in a year. He truly has made a fine field commander._

They passed now through dimly lit halls; here and there, brilliant slashes of sunlight from high windows punctuated the shade and lit up the dancing motes of dust that always seemed to be everywhere in Ala Mhigo. The Warrior remarked, “I think he’s still wrapping up a meeting with the ambassadors to Doma, but he’ll be glad to see you. And you—I want to hear _everything_ you’ve been up to these past years, mate.” She paused, ears flicking, before adding, “Maybe not the stories behind any new scars. I know you Ishgardians think it’s a bonding experience, but I don’t need Alphy fretting himself to death again.”

He couldn’t help but snort. “It cannot be _worse_ than when I awoke after Nidhogg.”

Her glare seared a hole into the side of his head. “Would you like a repeat? I assume not. Oh—here’s the meeting room. Titan!”

As her golden Titan-egi shoved the heavy doors open, Estinien’s gaze fell on the room beyond. Here were the same high ceilings and tall, narrow windows, the light from which illuminated floor cushions and low tables for the trio within. The diplomats—two highlander women—might have attracted more than a moment’s attention from him, but the third facing away from the door had to be Alphinaud and suddenly he wasn’t sure he was breathing.

His first, absurd thought was _The boy’s_ _grown tall_. Nowhere near his own height, true, but surely at least as tall as the Warrior. He was still slender and fine-boned as a gazelle, but his shoulders had broadened and the cut of his coat—deep blue, the same shade as his eyes—revealed long, long legs encased in sturdy boots. He hadn’t realized such pale hair _could_ be lightened by the sun, but when Alphinaud moved partly into the light it was nearly blinding in its brilliance, falling nearly to his waist in a single thick braid. The escaping wisps looked like fire, like a saint’s halo. _If I touched him, would it burn?_

“So, if that is all—” And his voice had broken. His voice had broken, and Estinien had missed the chance to poke fun at the attending squawks. Damn him for a fool.

The Warrior cleared her throat, straightening up. He might have thought it businesslike if her eyes weren’t gleaming wickedly. “Master Leveilleur? I brought you someone.”

Estinien wondered if it was too late to flee. _Can I reach that window from here? Yes, if I use that pillar and rotate about 25 degrees..._

But then Alphinaud was turning around. Just for a moment, he looked annoyed at the interruption—but then his gaze slid up to lock with Estinien’s own and _gods_ , the flush that spread all the way to his eartips as his expression shifted from shock to joy seemed to send the temperature soaring. “Estinien!”

 _He’s the same as he ever was._ He did his best to ignore the way his heart hammered at the insides of his ribcage as Alphinaud strode towards him—so close that if he dared, he could reach out and pull him in for a hug, feel that fluffy head come to rest against his shoulder. He thought the air might shatter if he did. He thought _he_ might shatter if he did.

The Warrior was grinning. “Found this lump taking up space on the palace steps, thought I’d bring him in. I know it’s been too long since you two have met—you’ll have to catch up.” She was already moving past them; he hardly noticed the lack of her grip on his arm as she moved to help the diplomats to their feet.

The entire world seemed to narrow to Alphinaud, standing barely two fulms away from him and gazing up at him as though he would never tire of the sight. He could _drown_ in those eyes. “It has been too long. But you...you look well.”

 _Oh_ , Estinien thought. The air seemed to waver as he took a breath.

_Fuck._

Alphinaud was smiling.

 


End file.


It was a ruined, blasted land, covered in rusting Garlean tech and corrupted crystals. Fog often covered the landscape in a gloomy haze. The Keeper of the Lake and Syrcus Tower loomed over everything, bitter reminders of horrors past. Cold winds often blew off the hills of Coerthas to the north–or the smell of ash rolled in from Carteneau to the south.

And yet.

When the sun came out on a clear day, and one stood on the new, strong walls of Revenant’s Toll, the land showed hints of its former pastoral self. Flowers and trees still bloomed in meadows, around wreckage, across rocky formations, and spilled out of the Tangle, slowly reclaiming what they had lost. The crystal formations shimmered in the light, scattering rainbows across one’s vision. The water danced around the _Agrius’_ corpse and the shell the ancient dragon had left behind. The Tower gleamed, looking like the promise it still meant to fulfill, someday; someday, when the last Student of Baldesion awoke from his long slumber and stepped out into the renewed landscape.

She leaned on a stonework rail and looked out over Mor Dhona. Behind and below, the Toll bustled and buzzed: children playing, merchants hawking wares, adventurers shouting to one another in laughing tones, music playing in the Seventh Heaven. She smiled.

It was a pretty good place to call home, after all.


	2. In Dreams

What would be considered cold anywhere else in the realm was downright balmy in Coerthas, with the wind blowing the scent of fresh pines off the mountains as the pair dropped onto a rock cleared of snow and almost warm in the sunlight. She huffed after their exertions, rolling her shoulder to ease the ache from a sword blow. 

Her companion laughed. “Splendid! I daresay I shall be sore for a week after that sparring session! Truly, my friend, you are magnificent.”

She eyerolled, but couldn’t help a grin. “Flatterer. Not so bad yourself. Definitely improved your shield work.” Something nagged at the back, bottom of her mind, but she couldn’t place it, so chose to ignore it.

“It’s a struggle to keep up with one such as you, and an honor,” he said, that smile still crinkling the corners of his eyes. “Though I am pleased you come to visit at all.”

“Of course I do,” she replied. There was a strange hollow sound to her words, as if they were said from far away, instead of her own lips. “You’re never far.”

“No, I suppose not,” he agreed, looking off across the chasm to the city, glimmering too brightly in the sunlight. “In dreams, one can never be far at all.”

“Why’d you say it?” She asked. He smiled at her again, sadder this time, and then she realized what rock she stood before, alone, as the wind picked up into a howl…

She opened her eyes and drew a deep breath. Outside the wind moaned through the fragments of Mor Dhona, in low, mournful tones, echoing the fading memory of the dream.


	3. Trusted

She stared at the grinning figure across the battlement. The phantom pull of restraints itched at her wrists. Cries of rage and grief and fear through the chamber echoed in her ears. Her breath felt short–from the battle up the wall, or from the recollection of running, as a group, then a handful, and then emerging alone…?

Below, screams and explosions mingled, and her heart could no longer hold back the roiling tide. “They trusted you! We trusted you!”

The Griffin mocked them, lost in his madness, and completed his final betrayal.


	4. Courage

Whenever she was in the North Shroud, she inevitably found herself drawn to the place where the duskwight had fallen.

She never understood why he saw her as a rival. Perhaps it was more of a focus for his rage, his pain, all the negativity he couldn’t get past, all of the hardship he’d endured and been hardened by.

They had tried. They just hadn’t known how to really help him.

And he hadn’t wanted the help, honestly. Without that desire, any attempt to reach out was doomed to fail.

She still remembered the look on his face, the anger turning to fear, in a man who had tried so hard to be fearless—not understanding how fear really worked to keep one alive, to make one fight harder, faster, better, lest the worst happen.

Courage wasn’t fearlessness. And it took no courage to cause harm for the sake of harm. It had been fear for the harm he would cause to others and himself that had driven her to accept his challenge that day.

While the Calamity had been surrounded in death, his was the first she felt responsible for.

She left a lily on the edge of the cliff. She hoped that somewhere, somehow, he had finally found peace and acceptance.


	5. Fooled

This was supposed to be a happy reunion.

She’d spied, fought, haggled, lied, and finally snuck into an Imperial bloody castrum to save her friends, so they could bring the light of hope back to the realm, together, to stop the Black Wolf and his Allagan horror. The mission had been a success, and the Alliance leaders reassured. Everything was on track for Operation Archon.

All she could think about was the Ascian laughing from behind that stolen face.

She thought of Stone Vigil, and how the Ascian had to have been wearing him then. How aware was the bard, trapped in his own skin?

All she knew was that the eyes looking up at them were not his. Same shape, same color, but all wrong. Not him. None of that was him.

It was just very good at pretending. How long had it been fooling them?

She thought of the haunted look in his eyes after Ifrit, the muttered resolution to do better, apologizing over and over for events outside either of their control—he’d have just been tempered, too, after all. Was that the last time she’d seen the real archon?

The others had their ideas and theories. How he’d pushed himself, and worn himself down until he was ripe for the Ascian’s scheming. It had been going on for a while, before she’d even joined the Scions. She wasn’t responsible for him pushing himself, for his feelings of responsibility.

So why did she feel so guilty?

Someone called her name; the Flames were ready for her. She pushed off the wall she'd been leaning on and strode for the door. She paused as she passed Minfilia.

"We'll get him back," she said quietly. She didn't wait for the Antecedent's response before leaving.

She hoped she was right.


	6. Shells

Is it possible to pity a monster?

The gleaming white armor looks crumpled, a shell devoid of what had once made it seem so impervious.

Cid’s face is difficult to read as he looks away.

I remember walking into the Waking Sands, the smell of blood and offal strong in my nostrils. The familiar faces looked strange and unreal, twisted in pain or anger or both, their bodies splayed across the floor.

Crumpled shells.

The Imperial bodies scattered throughout confirmed some fears. They’d been left behind—who did that? How many were conscripts, forced to fight? Would their families ever know their fates?

_Later, later, find the archons, find the Antecedent…_

I found Noraxia.

The sylph’s memories showed me the tribunus’ cruelty, her callousness, her utter disregard. She took the “worthy” hostages and left the rest dying or dead.

She tortured my friends.

Now, in the Castrum, she cries out for van Baelsar, sounding like a little girl crying for a parent (later I learn more about them, and my disgust for the Black Wolf only grows).

I can’t forgive what she did to us; orders or not, act of war or not.

But I can feel sorry for a little girl twisted into a monster by an even worse one.


	7. A Moment

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> Just another short prompt response.

She awoke to the sun’s ray beaming into her west-facing room as the afternoon heat pressed over Vesper Bay. She hadn’t drawn the curtains before falling onto her bed, still fully clothed, sometime in the early hours of the morning.

There was movement and voices outside, other Scions going about their day. There was still a lot of cleanup and repairs to do, now that everyone was home.

 _Home_. She smiled, listening to the muffled sounds while dust motes danced in the shafts of light falling across her bed. The Scions were rebuilding; while they’d lost many, others survived, and new recruits were on the way.

The realm was safe–for now. There would no doubt be more challenges in the future, the primals could still be resummoned, the Garlean Empire still loomed…

But for now, with the smell of salty air wafting in through the window, the sunlight turning a deeper orange-gold through the panes, and her friends laughing in the next room, the Warrior of Light could just be herself and enjoy this brief moment.


	8. Silence

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> Been sitting on this one awhile. Random thoughts concerning the shift from ARR to HW.

The silence bothers me the most.

What had Minfilia heard, in that tunnel, in those moments? Why had Hydaelyn not spoken to me, not shown me how to save the others…

Why had I run? Even battered by…those traitors, even weak from what little of the wine I’d drank (a different poison to make me manageable, or was it the dosage difference between myself and Nanamo? _Don’t think about it, about the Sultana’s small body falling to the ground, like a flower suddenly cut from its stem_ ), a few Brass Blades and Crystal Braves and Sultansworn and--well, all right, even a Warrior of Light could be overwhelmed. And Ilberd had defeated Raubahn…

I sigh, push back the blanket, swing my legs to the floor, stretching as I stand. I leave the makeshift room I claimed and cross the intercessory to the fireplace. A few pokes and a new log, and the fire crackles warmly again, contrasting the howl of wind outside.

The clocks chime midnight. Tataru and Alphinaud sleep on; they need it.

I stare into the dancing flames, holding my dulled Water Crystal, and try.

To hear.  
To feel.  
To think.

Silence.

I recall the vision of the darkened crystal, at the celebration after the defeat of van Baelsar. Before the primal’s roar. Can the Mother answer? Is She drowned out? Was it the ancient dragon’s doing, when he darkened my light and bound himself to me?

Minfilia heard, and obeyed. Is she safe? Are Y’shtola and Thancred alive? Yda and Papalymo? F’lhaminn, Hoary, Coultenet? How many others are missing, or imprisoned—or shared poor Wilred’s fate?

At least Urianger and those who help him in the Waking Sands are nominally safe. Defenses of our former headquarters had been much improved after the Imperial raid. There was no protecting the Rising Stones from such a betrayal. I just pray it wasn’t so bloody as before.

I sit on the rug—a woolly monstrosity from gods know where—knees drawn up, arms wrapped around them. Alone in a circle of light from the fire.

Why is She silent?

What did Minfilia hear?

There’s a deep rumble inside my mind, like a growling purr. I feel/see coils of shifting scales, the adjusting of wings, in darkness that hides all but the sensation of weighted ages. _Rest_ , he says.

I put my Crystal away. I prod the fire a few more times before standing and returning to my bed. I don’t want him to get the impression that I’m obeying.

Maybe someday I can ask Minfilia what she heard. When we find her and the others.

Tomorrow we finally cross the Steps of Faith. Tomorrow we shall be in Ishgard.

Perhaps the city can fill the silence.


	9. Chat

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> Two friends talking.

“I feel selfish, and weak.”

“You are not either of those things, Alphinaud.”

“Others suffer setbacks, loss. So much more than I have, and often without the privilege I was born into, as has oft been pointed out.”

“It’s not a contest. Pain and loss just _are_ , and everyone has a threshold.”

“But I have caused—“

“Look, it’s like glasses at a bar. A potent liquor in a small shot glass can have the same effect as ale in a large tankard. Everyone’s got their own glass, they’re just all different sizes. Pain’s the drink. Everyone’s got their limit, based on what their glass can hold.”

“But no F’lhaminn to cut us off. The glass keeps getting refilled.”

“Sometimes, yeah.” 

“And in that case one simply gets worse and worse until—“

“I never said it was a perfect analogy, it’s just what came to mind. This is why I just usually smile and nod, you know.”

“Ha! Touche, my friend.  ...I miss them.”

“I do, too.”

“I feel like I took their presence for granted, whilst swanning across the realm—“

“Alphinaud.”

“I know, I know—“

“I don’t think you do. So listen; you made mistakes, yes. Trusted the wrong people—we all did. Hells, I believed Laurentius when he said he wanted a fresh start. Maybe he believed it then, too, I dunno, but he made a choice. So did those others. You, and poor Nanamo, were manipulated by men older, more experienced, and far more ruthless than expected—because you want to see the good in people. You want to live by your grandfather’s beliefs about helping others. ‘Twas some few others who took advantage of that. Their choices. Their actions. By all means, grieve; but don’t blame yourself for that which you could not control,”

“I fear it will take me time to feel that.”

“It works like that sometimes. Just need to lay it out there first. Small steps.”

“Thank you. For listening. And...saying more than usual.”

“You’re welcome, but now I need a drink.”

“I bet if you asked Lord Haurchefant, he’d make more cocoa.”

“I bet you’re right. I’ll go ask. If you wipe that smirk off your face, I might bring you a mug, as well.”

“I am not smirking. Just smiling because I am glad that you have such a good friend.”

“Uh-huh. I shall return.”

“You always do.”


	10. Do It For Gilly

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> Unlocking the Fractal Continuum because your adorable lalafel engineer buddy asked sweetly? Sounds about right.

Why in the seven hells don’t they just let the boy have a bloody dog?

Ah well. There are worse pets—I suppose—than an old Allagan node. And honestly, who could say no to Wedge when he is being so damnably cute about an artificial intelligence and babbling about mechanical things that are going _way_ over my head?

Well, besides Biggs. And Jessie. And Cid.

I just need to have a talk with the Ironworks team, I think.

Regardless, _someone_ has to keep Wedge out of trouble, which of course defaults to _me_ keeping him out of trouble. Gods know he might just try to sneak into the Fractal Continuum himself to find what he wants otherwise.

And Gilly did help quite a bit, and does deserve better than deactivation for want of a working power source.

So, here I go again, I suppose. I will find some tomestones or something for Rowena while I’m at it, so I can claim a practical reason for this venture.

Let’s be honest, though, at least with ourselves:

The Warrior of Light is going into an old Allagan warship-turned-museum to help a friend fix his pet node, that I also grew somewhat fond of while crossing this hellscape.

Hydaelyn’s Grace, I really am a softie.


	11. Pray Return

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> Memories of other departures and communications, versus the situation post-Castrum Fluminis (spoilers through 4.3 content).

“You know,” I said, before leaving the Solar. “You gave me this linkpearl, ostensibly to talk when afield. Did I truly have to return for this?” I tried to keep my tone light; it would not do to insult the Antecedent, after all.

She of course did not take it as an offense, laughing a little at my teasing indignation. “‘Tis true, I did. And they do connect you with the other Scions as well. But, truth be told, for all their convenience...I dislike using them.”

I just looked at her, crossing my arms and lifting a brow, trying not to smile in response to her cheerful expression.

“I would much rather speak to someone face to face. It is simply...easier. Especially when that someone tends to speak with facial expressions, posture, and a stoic nod of their head, more than their voice,” she teased.

I gave her a pout, and she outright giggled.

“Worry not, my friend. I shall try not to call you home too often whilst on your adventures.”

I just shook my head. “So you say.” I bowed and made my way out; I had a job to do.

I was halfway to Horizon when the linkpearl chirped, and then her voice came into my ear: “Pray return to the Waking Sands,” she said, with a giggle.

I could not help but laugh in response as well--and then I turned off the linkshell for a while.

**~******~**

> _“‘Tis a strange feeling. So many times have I watched you depart, my heart filled with worry, and ever did you return to me in triumph.”_

Her words seem to echo in these suddenly too-large halls.

The Rising Stones feel empty; many are still in Gyr Abania, keeping tabs on the Ananta, or scattered elsewhere around the realm checking on other beast tribes. The Domans, of course, are all back home now and rebuilding their nation.

Tataru is still in Kugane, and now Y’shtola is en route. They will have a lovely time in the port city before her rendezvous with Yugiri to cross the Ruby Sea.

Krile is also far away to the east, handling the mystery of Eureka; I hope she finally gets answers about her people.

Thancred is...gods only know where by now, heading into the Empire. I want him to find Alphinaud, and stick to the boy’s side like glue--or drag him home; that would work too, and make Alisaie stop pacing and growling about the premises.

She is not the only one worried for her brother. I simply cannot shake this bad feeling, that I dare not share with her.

I make my way to the Solar. Unukalhai is not studying inside; he is working on something with Urianger, I think. Just as well, though it is one more not present.

I find myself tracing the edge of the desk, and walking around to the chair.

Her chair.

None of us have had the heart to replace her furniture, repurpose the space, or use her desk. Nevermind how Alphinaud--much as he protests his role in our group--would find it more convenient.

Were he here.

We are so scattered, even the linkshell is not reliable for communications--and for some of our number, far too dangerous to use currently.

She had never liked using linkpearls, anyway, convenient as they are.

> _“Someday, when I have found a way to free this star from Her sorrow, I promise you I shall repay the favor.”_

I am not usually the one left behind, waiting.

I stare at the chair, wishing she was there. Wishing the rest of them were gathered on the other side of the desk, safe and sound.

I find myself whispering in the heavy emptiness of the Solar.

“Pray return to the Rising Stones.”


	12. Stargazing

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> A post-4.3 tumblr prompt! Features some of our favorite red mages (that are not cats).

Arya clattered into the Rising Stones, waving to various Scions hailing her as she made a beeline for Alisaie, sulking at the receptionist desk.

“C’mon. We’re going outside,” Arya declared.

Alisaie looked up warily. “…Why…?”

“Because it’s the first clear evening in a sennight and we should enjoy it.” Arya spun around and pointed at me; I had thought I had escaped notice. “You’re coming too!”

I looked at Alisaie and shrugged as I stood. “She’s got a point.”

“Does she?” Alisaie replied, the slightest hint of acid in her tone. But she stood to follow; sometimes my influence on the twins can be useful, which is likely what Arya was banking on.

Arya led us out of the Rising Stones, through the Seventh Heaven, and out into the square. It was a clear, lovely night, after several days of rain and Mor Dhona’s particular aetheric gloom. “The view from the top of the tower should be amazing,” Arya said, heading for one of the stairways leading up the walls, drawing us with her.

“I have work I could be doing,” Alisaie sighed as she climbed the stairs after Arya.

“It can wait another day, Alisaie. Even X’rhun would be closing your books and shooing you out the door.”

“And since he is not here, you are taking up that duty?” There was a hint of teasing now in Alisaie’s tone; good.

“Indeed!” Arya said cheerfully.

I let the girls banter as I found a spot on the parapet to lean on, gazing up at the nighttime sky. The moon was naught more than a sliver, a shooting star falling by, a lone cloud floating past.

I wondered if I could ever again look up at the moon without that strange, dull ache I had felt since Castrum Fluminis.

I turned my attention instead to the stars, uncountable in the sky, some near enough to connect and name as constellations. We picked them out; the Spire, the Arrow, the Spear. We gossipped about the citizens of the Toll. We bemoaned the cost of our favorite treats in the local markets, imported as they were from across the realm. We discussed magical and martial theory, and gave Arya a few pointers as she struggled to retrain her own skills.

We were, really, just three friends having a good time together–not the ones left behind to wait.

Eventually a guard wandered by on his rounds, mentioning that F’lhammin had expressed concerns about us staying out too late and catching chill, which Alisaie responded to by lighting a flame in her hand. The guard shook his head with a grin and continued on, as we laughed.

“He is right, though; we really should start to head inside; it’s near midnight,” Alisaie said, letting out a sigh. It sounded content. “…Thank you.”

Arya smiled. “Thank _you_ , for indulging me. Both of you.” She looked at me and winked.

I nodded, and ushered both the girls down the stairs. Arya waved as she returned to her own small room, while Alisaie and I continued to the Rising Stones.

Someday soon, I hoped, X’rhun’s students would simply go stargazing for the fun of it, and not as a needed distraction.


	13. Diary

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> Tumblr Prompt. The Dark Knight Journal entries are some of my favorites; the writing team (at least in the EN version) goes all out.

You have always been so diligent about keeping up your journal, chronicling your adventures. It is mostly for yourself, but perhaps someday, some historian will look on the words you wrote and know who the infamous Warrior of Light truly was.

There will be some entries that puzzle those future scholars. Anything having to do with Hildibrand Manderville, for instance.

And then there are the entries that stop sounding like you wrote them. A sarcastic tone, bloodthirsty declarations, a conversation occurring between yourself and the page.

You do not remember writing these entries.

The handwriting is, and yet is not, your own.

Everything became so much clearer after Whitebrim. You considered removing those pages, rewriting the tale now that you had stopped lying to yourself–but no. Your journal chronicles your tale as it unfolds, and that would be disingenuous, to yourself most of all. You do this so you will always remember.

Besides, it was over now, wasn’t it?

Until the day your dark red soul crystal cracks. Until the child with his eyes and her hair appears, begging your aid, and you have no choice as it is your aether the child has stolen with this strange power he claims to wield to help others.

You and your companions travel with the child, seeking to give aid and succor to those he deems need it most. It’s not always successful.

It always involves someone you know, someone touched by the violent trail of your adventures.

One night, you find yourself back in Rhalgr’s Reach, your companions far away, the child despondent. You sit down with your journal to catch up.

You do not remember writing these entries.

The handwriting is, and yet is not, your own.

The conversation continues.

_I’m trying to warn you, you bloody fool._


	14. Tomorrow

The tower gleams, casting scintillating shadows over the ruined landscape, refracting off the skeletal wings and rusting metal of the Keeper. The tower’s reflection glistens in the water, making it seem as if Allag’s dream stretches on forever.

Rammbroes raises a hand in greeting; Cid, Biggs, and Wedge are already here. Even Nero is skulking off to the side, pretending he isn't just as invested. They have all been waiting on the last member of NOAH to arrive.

You return the wave, and as a group you make your way down the ancient, ruined road, past the rubble of the watchers you dismantled, all the while laughing and joking, catching up on news, gossip, each others’ lives, the most recent findings of the Sons of St Coinach, Nero making his typical snide remarks.

As you pass through the silent labyrinth, however, the laughter fades, the words die out. The Ironworks crew begin double checking their gear, going over their lists. You and Rammbroes follow along, the tension stifling any potential contributions.

The sealed door looms over all of you, the figures carved in the surface causing a pang of remembrance, of two clones--two _friends_ \--lost in the Darkness, to end their forebears’ madness.

“Here goes nothing,” Cid says, as he and Nero finish attaching the last nodes. Wedge flips the switch and presses the button. Behind him, Biggs crosses his fingers.

There is an impressive flare of lights, you all hold in a breath--and then there are sparks, and everything fizzles, then goes dark, the machinery drained.

Again.

Wedge mutters his favorite curses and kicks the offending tech. Cid shakes his head. Nero rants about his perfect calculations and how it must be someone else's fault. Biggs just silently begins to pack the gear.

Rammbroes sighs and offers you a weary smile. You let out your own breath and give him one of your famous stoic nods.

You will not be seeing your slumbering friend today, and tomorrow is still such a long way off.


	15. Rules

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> For a Warrior of Light

**Do** take every opportunity to upgrade your arms and armor; it could mean the difference between life and death.

**Don’t** short the local merchants, aetheryte minders, or healers; they keep you stocked, moving, and healthy.

**Do** watch your party members’ backs, because they ought to be watching yours, and it’s the best way for everyone to make it out alive.

**Don’t** shift blame. Accept your screw ups, learn from them, and move on.

**Do** accept compliments; sometimes the memory of a kind word is the best defense one has against the doubts that run rampant, especially after dark.

**Don’t** ignore the young, the old, the infirm, the servants; they see and hear more than most realize, and can be your best resources and dearest friends.

**Do** show proper respect to the regional gods and traditions, even if you don’t believe in or understand them. The locals will appreciate your respect and besides--you never know.

**Don’t** cross Rowena. It just isn’t worth it.

**Do** stick it to the Monetarists at every opportunity, even if you have to work with Lolorito from time to time. Begrudgingly. If Her Impetuousness can learn to play along, so can you.

**Don’t** forget the little jobs and side projects. Those people are counting on you too. Gods only knows what trouble the Ironworks would get into without you, for instance.

**Do** remember to take time for yourself and your friends, though. Outside of work, missions, worry, stress. Everyone needs a break, time to relax, to just be.

**Don’t** fall in love. With found family, with dear friends, with partners. They worship you, or are jealous of you, and it isn’t healthy. They think they aren’t worthy of you, as if you’re on some godsdamned pedestal. Too often they sacrifice themselves for you, because you’re supposedly so bloody important. As if they aren’t; as if they aren’t your light, as if they aren’t your reason for doing all these things, as if it doesn’t rip your heart out every time you lose someone else, the names an increasing list of pain and failure and you can _almost_ understand a thousand years of grief and rage.

**Do** break the last rule--as often as possible.


	16. What Happens on the Steppe...Gets Shared Back Home

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> A conversation between the WoL and a former Scion who completely understands why a situation is so darn amusing. Spoilers for 4.4 Prelude in Violet. No angst!

“You are putting me on!”

“I swear by all the gods and kami, Lyse, I am not. You can ask our Lord of Doma when he arrives--or ask Y’shtola yourself.”

“No thanks! But she really did that?”

“She did, and it was great.”

“And in front of _Sadu_!”

“You think you’re laughing; ‘twas as if Nhaama herself had delivered the khatun a gift.”

“Ohh, I bet!”

“Of course, that angered Our Most Radiant Brother all over, and they set to fighting once more.”

“Why am I not surprised?”

“Y’shtola decided we had wasted enough time there, and simply...walked right through them.”

“Completely poised and graceful, I bet.”

“Of course.”

“How does she _do_ that?”

“She’s...Y’shtola. Fair certain she can do anything, honestly.”

“I have heard some of the propositions she’s gotten over the years, and her responses are _always_ cutting, but _this_...I wish I had seen his face myself!”

“If I could use the Echo to show you, I would.”

“I’m sorry I missed the trip to the Steppe. It would have been nice visit with Cirina, at least.”

“She and Grandmother send their love, of course. And buuz. We’ve got it packed in ice crystals to keep for you. Not as nice as having it fresh, but--”

“I’ll take it! _Little sun_. Gods, I’m going to randomly giggle about that all through the meeting and everyone’s going to wonder what’s wrong with me.”

“You and me both, Lyse. You and me both.”


	17. Leaving

They were words never said out loud, but she felt them regardless, even if she could not understand why they were necessary.

Crouching by the battered General on the sandy, rust-stained ring in Halatali, she thought about the last time she had seen him, wild and broken, his blood flowing free. She had realized later, in the carriage, that it had spattered and stained on her jacket. She had tried to keep his son from noticing, though he could not have known whose blood it was.

She wanted to apologize, for following his command, for leaving him to face the traitors alone while she had run.

“On your feet, gladiator,” she said instead. This time, at least, they could take him somewhere safe.

Sometimes the words were a promise for later, even if they stuck in her throat.

***~***

She watched the pair banter, and couldn’t help a smile. Part of her heart relaxed, seeing them both here, now, in the dusty foothills of the Smoldering Wastes.

Part of her heart still ached at how much they had been changed, since her last glimpse of them in that tunnel.

She wanted to apologize for listening to them, for the light and the explosive rumble of the cave-in, for the desperate, dangerous spell.

For the look in the rogue’s visible eye, as he looked for the one he expected--and wanted most--to see, but who was also, still, missing.

Her fault.

Sometimes she wondered who was really left behind.

***~***

“You orchestrated all of this not to save her, but to send her away!?”

He sounded so much like the boy he was in this moment. The Word’s gentle reassurance did naught to ease the ache in her own heart.

Then another voice spoke up, entirely expected.

“...You would go alone then?”

_No!_ She wanted to cry out. _Not you too!_ It would be too much to lose. But she knew, if the Word but nodded, he would go without hesitation--and she could not blame him.

But even he was left with them, in the sand and heat of Thanalan once more, the Word and her counterpart gone to the star swallowed by Light.

She was not sure if hearing similar words, instead of saying them, made them hurt less or more.

***~***

The boy ran, urged on by the shinobi. The masked girl kicked and screamed against the rogue bearing her away.

Her friend looked up. “This is one battle you cannot fight. Away with you. Go!”

She shook her head. _No_. No more; she would not leave another behind.

His spell struck and lifted, and she felt the whisper in the aether, _I’m sorry_.

Who had left who behind?

Watching the other girl straining against the rail as the light filled the sky and sealed the beast, she knew they were not the ones doing the leaving.


	18. Jealous Guardian

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> A Tumblr prompt about expressing jealousy that went a little sideways, as they often do.

She grit her teeth and took one more swing with her weapon. The ogre fell with a drawn-out groan into the snow. She stood, puffing and panting in the cold air, realizing that all was now silent.

She took what she had sought from the fallen gang of beasts, leaving their bodies cooling along the remnants of the old Vigil wall as she hurried past Menphina’s Mark. The wind whipped her coat about her legs as she reached the other, smaller marker overlooking the chasm and the city beyond.

“Sorry about that,” she muttered as she returned the broken shield to its rightful place. She used the spell Coultenet had given her to hold it in place, protected against the elements and, gods willing, anymore thefts by local wildlife.

She spent the next half bell or so trying to calm herself and the anger boiling inside her. Trying to relax her jaw and not grind her teeth. Stretching her fingers and cracking knuckles to not clench fists. Rolling her shoulders, doing a few squats–he would have found the last amusing.

This was why it was important to check, every few weeks when she could. It had been difficult recently, with so many long trips to the Far East; hence the ogres’ thieving. They were getting bold, now that the hostilities with the dragons had died down. It wasn’t as if young Francel could keep an eye on the memorial by himself, and Emmanellain had his hands full monitoring the Ixal…

No, she’d just have to continue keeping on eye on the point herself.

It was only right, after he had spent so much time watching out for her.


	19. Sunset

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> Random thoughts that popped into mind early in the morning. End of Heavensward 3.0 MSQ spoilers.

The sunset drowns the islands in gold and pink. Even on this blighted landscape it is a lovely sight--that makes my heart ache.

It shall be some time, I think, before I can enjoy a sunset again, without thinking of the Vault’s cold walls filled with fire, the lance of light, the pain and the grief.

_I will kill all of them._

The venom of that thought is comforting. Violence is familiar. Dealing death is familiar. _They deserve this._

In the depths of the Abyss, a tiny voice of Light asks “Do they?”

If what I saw in the Vault was true, they have been taken by the primals they summoned unto themselves. Ysayle has-- _had_ \--the protection of the Echo. The archbishop and his knights do not. They are not the men they once were, shall never be again. They must be put down to prevent the spread of this particular disease.

...Gods, that sounded like Ser Charibert.

But it’s the truth, isn’t it? I do what must be done. I am a Scion of the Seventh Dawn. I am the Warrior of Light. Even the rule of law is on my side.

I know what’s become of them, and so many things make sense now; the Archbishop had long ago admitted to courting the Ascians, but who could have thought he was using their schemes to fuel his own ambitions, to do such things?

No wonder the Horde was suddenly on a rampage, after a thousand years of cat-and-mouse. The dragons know all too well how this works, how dangerous this is. That power in the hands of mortals, used against them?

I look back over my shoulder even as we land on the Flagship. Tiamat is a distant point, bound in chains she could easily break by now, had she the will. Were she not still consumed by her grief and guilt, the horrors brought upon the world by her own thirst for vengeance.

I flex my hands, clenched painfully into fists. I turn toward the entrance to the research facility and Gilly’s gently floating form.

******

I do what must be done. I watch them break into aether, their bodies consumed by the primal forces they had summoned.

I feel nothing. Where is the satisfaction, the peace, the easing of this pain howling and gnawing at my chest ever since--

The banquet, really. It was just held in check, until sunset at the Vault.

The Archbishop is a frightened, frail old man, confused by his defeat. “Who-- _What_ are you?!”

I am a Scion of the Seventh Dawn. I am the Warrior of Light. I am--

Not finished. Never finished, as the Shade takes my friend.

“What hath thy fury made of thee…?” My companion asks, mournful. He addresses his son, but I am the one present to feel the words’ sting.

I spare one last glance at the cold, empty arena. Vengeance, justice, it all swirls around my head as we fly back to Ishgard.

There’s so much more to be done; for the city upended by the Church’s age of betrayal, for Estinien and Nidhogg, for my missing comrades.

I meet with Alphinaud and Tataru at the memorial erected for our dear friend, overlooking his beloved home. The wind whips at us, the day cold despite the clear, sunny sky.

I am tired.


End file.


> A short tumblr prompt I liked enough to post here.

You can’t save everyone.

You see evidence of that fact as you limp back to the city behind the Lord Commander, Alphinaud stumbling alongside you.

Broken bodies litter the torn bridge, both dragons and knights. Did the shaky new wards and defenses hold, or did the Brume suffer more damage, the poor of the city subject to more horror?

The cheers as you pass sound distant and dull in your ears, the aether-high from Hraesvelgr’s Eye fading, leaving you drained. Yet you keep moving, supporting your young friend, because you are the Warrior of Light, and that’s what you do. You keep moving. You help others. You save people.

You couldn’t save _them_. They had sacrificed themselves, to ensure _you_ lived, to ensure _this_ moment. They had come, once again, to your side. 

To end the war. To protect the city. To save a friend.

The knights, the people–they call you savior, champion, hero. You’ve heard those words before, and given your penchant for rushing into dangers no one else can survive, you likely will again.

You look back at the smoldering Steps, at the bodies being gathered. Those titles are meaningless to the dead.

Or are they, if what you saw in those horrible seconds of pulling wasn’t a trick of pain and light and longing?

Alphinaud lets out a relieved sigh as you enter the city. The chirurgeons take Estinien’s limp form to the Congregation infirmary.

You can’t save everyone. You’re still trying to learn to live with that.

Today, you saved him.

Somehow, after everything else–it’s enough.


End file.


I slide into the hot water, listening to the low jabber of the other customers in their own pools. A wind blows in from the sea, salty and cool compared to the steam rising around me.

> _“Now that the dust has settled…”_

It hadn’t settled for long, had it? As if the Spinner heard Ser Aymeric’s words and laughingly pulled the threads of fate to make sure the Warrior of Light kept busy, with an injured friend and Garuda’s summoning sudden priorities, immediately followed by yet more urgent concerns.

> _“Not as a Scion, I mean…”_

Almost everything I do is as a Scion, from the moment I’d accepted the Archons’ invitation and Momodi’s directions–and warnings–to the Waking Sands. Gods, it feels like forever ago–yet it wasn’t really, was it? It’s just that so much happened, so quickly, one event after another.

I look back at my clothes, waiting for me to be done in the hot spring.

> _“I also sewed in a blood pearl charm to…you know…bring you home. May it always protect you.”_

I can’t help a smile as I remember Tataru’s words. Home. I hadn’t known what that word meant, until the Scions of the Seventh Dawn. Until Minfilia ( _push down the pang that always comes with recalling, she’ll return, she promised_ ) used “family” to describe our weary band of scholars and warriors.

> _“What will you do?”_

“What I always do,” had been the immediate thought to spring to mind. Train. Study. Fight. Help those who need it, who ask. Trade the spoils of battle at one of Rowena’s shops for better equipment to better fight in the next battle. Be ready for the next disaster, the next crisis, the next time the realm needs a champion…

I sigh and slide lower, until my nose is just barely above the water, the scent of the rice wine noticeable now and stinging a bit.

What DO I want for myself? Do I even know anymore?

My mind tries to return to the Royal Menagerie, but I dismiss those memories–those _accusations_ –as I get out of the pool.

I’m _not_ like that monster. I don’t crave blood, or carnage, nor do I glory in death and destruction. I just…don’t hate it. I’m _good_ at what I do. And being good at what I do means I can protect everyone else.

Well. I can try, at least. It doesn’t always work out that way, does it?

( _Lilies left at Thaliak’s mark, at a stone near the Steel Vigil, at the docks of Azys Lla, at…_ )

I get dressed. I pay my bill. I start to walk across Kugane–it’s too nice a day and I am thinking too much to want to use the aetherytes–and I wonder how much longer we’re going to have to wait for these negotiations, for this farce of a prisoner exchange, for sas Brutus to play his hand–

I feel dizzy; too much time in the bath, perhaps. I lean on a nearby wall for a moment to get my bearings. I catch a glimpse of a pink dress and a dark tail from the corner of my eye.

> _“What will you do?”_

I can’t help a smile as I push off the wall. I wave and call out to Nashu Mhakaracca; her glee at seeing me is guileless and genuine. There’s a wolf burglar to catch and a missing inspector to find.

I want to have _fun_ again–and if nothing’s going to make sense anyway, then by the gods, I ought to try to have a good time while the world bends in on itself. If nothing else, it’ll be something…interesting…to do while we wait for this Doma situation to resolve so we can go home again.

**Author's Note:**

> I have trouble with the "micro" part of "micro-fiction." Also titles are hard when the prompt was "crave" but that didn't really fit as a title for how this turned out.


End file.


* * *

 

Wind from the east and it's blowing strong  
The sky is heavy and the sea looks wrong  
There's a storm a coming and it won't be long  
'Til it reach the sands of the old Bloodshore

Every lad and lass knows what's in store  
The wind will blow and the rain will pour  
Better pull the boats back up the shore  
All along the sands of the old Bloodshore

'Twas the season of storms, when my parents met  
Mama wove her spell like a fisher's net  
She snared Da's heart, made him the sea forget  
All along the sands of the old Bloodshore

I'm a Seawolf girl, I don't need no comb  
Pull my tresses straight with a pugil bone  
Take me as I am or leave me alone  
All along the sands of the old Bloodshore

When I was a young girl and in my prime,  
I'd court those sailor boys two at a time  
To dance alone always seemed a crime  
All along the sands of the old Bloodshore

Oh, the pirate lads, they all loved me so  
'Cause my lips don't tell all that my eyes know  
But one by one, they all had to go  
All along the sands of the old Bloodshore

But came the day for me to settle down  
With my bonnie boy from Limsa town  
And cast my wild days out to sea to drown  
All along the sands of the old Bloodshore

So all you sheltering from the storm,  
It's another's heart that will keep you warm  
That's the way it's been since the world was born  
All along the sands of the old Bloodshore.

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> My Eorzean songs tend to draw on my vague knowledge of real world folk music. This song borrows a lot from the sea-shanty "The Bay of Mexico," although much of the lyrics are original with me and the adapted bits have a different narrative thrust. I never had an actual tune in mind for it (despite it being their source, the words don't entirely work with the tune of "Bay of Mexico"), so feel free to make up your own. :)


	2. My Captain Lost

_The origins of this song are in "The Hunter's Lament", which has been sung by the Keeper's of the Moon in the Twelveswood for generations. Obviously, this version came about since the Calamity. Variations have spread to the other cities of the Alliance, but I personally consider this Gridanian version to be the best._

* * *

The last retreat from Carteneau  
Before the Hammer’s Fall  
They needed souls to guard the rear  
And we answered to the call.

 

Our Captain rode out, proud and tall  
No trace of doubt or fear  
She rallied us to hold the line  
As the Legion’s troops drew near.

 

With bow and steel we held them back  
‘Til our comrades reached their goal  
The time had come to follow on  
But alas we paid the Revenant’s Toll

 

Our Captain met the final charge  
With fury, fire, and pride  
Six of our foes fell to her sword  
But the seventh left his blade in her side.

 

By the time we reached the Boulder Downs  
She was looking pale and worn  
By the time we reached the Fallgourd Ford  
There weren’t nothin’ left to do but mourn

 

Sixteen fiery chocobos  
Pull a carriage draped in black  
Taking seven women to the graveyard  
Only six of us is comin’ back

 

I’ll go out to the Shrine of Twelve  
To kneel, weep and pray  
If they ask me who I’m crying for  
Let me find the words to say

 

She was a simple soldier, just like me  
Not fated for fame or grace  
She’s not counted in the Ranks of Light  
But at least I can remember her face

 

When I die, dress me in my armor  
My quiver and bow at my side  
Tie my hair back in a hunter’s braid  
So my Captain knows I’m ready to ride

 

Now you’ve heard my story  
There’s nothing more to know  
But if you’ve a mind, then raise a glass  
To my Captain lost at Carteneau

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> This one can be sung to the tune of "The Gambler's Blues" (aka "St. James Infirmary"). The sixth stanza is lifted from a version of that song, almost unchanged. The ninth and tenth are looser adaptations from the same song. The rest of it is my own.


End file.


The sort of revelries that would draw Guydelot in like a moth to uncovered flame or, even more likely, the sort of revelries that sprung up organically around the bard like moths to _him._

Sanson shakes his head, settling his uniform cap on his sparsely decorated desk and running a hand through his hair, the chirping of the robin outside a distant thought.

His lance goes on its stand beside his desk, and the papers he’s brought from his last meeting – supply and rations forwarding through Castrum Oriens to aid the Alliance still stationed on the Gyr Abanian border, a report from the sentries at Amarissaix’s Spire, the sort of routine meeting that left Sanson in a bit of a stupor – are dropped on the desk as well.

It’s a little chilly outside, slightly too warm for snow but frigid enough that the birds are staying cozied in their nests and Sanson himself leaves his uniform coat on, grateful for the extra layer of heavy wool. The fauna of the Black Shroud don’t often migrate, and when they do it’s only to different parts of the forest, where the foliage is denser and warmer. It’s the benevolence of the elementals that keeps it so – benevolence, or perhaps habit so rigid it borders on natural law.

Speaking of rigid habits...

Sanson glances at his small mirror moored to the wall, running a hand through his hair again, teasing the ends of the strands with his fingers to adjust the body and fall of the style into something more... tousled. Something freer, more boyish, more like Guydelot’s –

He catches himself with that thought, with that motion, and smooths his hair back into its usual arrangement. _Idiot,_ he berates himself. _You’re Sanson the Stiff, and you’re proud of it. What are you doing?_

It’s a rhetorical question to himself that he still tries to answer, frozen staring at himself in the mirror, his plain features and his plain expression and his plain hair and his plain personality all thrown back at him starkly, in such a manner that he should feel _ashamed_ of it, of himself –

His door swings open with a loud creak, the knob knocking against the far wall, and it’s only at the latter noise that Sanson jerks out of his reverie and comes stumbling back to reality.

“Who –” he starts before he turns, intent on chastising whichever private barged into his quarters without announcement thinking they were on their way to the latrine, but a sharp “ _tut-tut”_ gives him pause.

As does the sight of the man leaning against his doorjamb, his frame taking up the entire space with how he’s angled his torso.

Guydelot’s height is extensive, but fairly typical for the Elezen of Gridania; it’s Sanson who’s on the short side as a Midlander, looking up at the bard, who’s examining his nails as if he’s supposed to be barricading Sanson inside his own room.

His other hand has some sort of rucksack in its grip, and Sanson’s gaze flicks to it for only a second, before returning to Guydelot’s face.

“Can I help you?” Sanson asks, testily.

“Not sure about that one,” Guydelot responds in the same rhythm. “I’m looking for a big stick, you know, like a tree branch –”

Sanson has a sneaking suspicion where Guydelot is going with this one, but he stands with his arms crossed and foot tapping, waiting nonetheless.

“—and I think it’s in here, probably somewhere like up your ass—”

“Yes, yes, I know,” Sanson interrupts Guydelot’s _very clever_ little joke. “I’m the Stiff. Ha ha. Now truly: can I help you? It’s rude to barge into someone’s room without knocking.”

Guydelot rolls his eyes. “I can’t come to visit?”

Sanson turns around and walks back over to his window, a clear invitation for Guydelot to enter though he’d never quite say it in words. “Are those the manners you were raised with?” he counters, occupying himself with straightening his various trinkets and baubles, the majority of which had been accumulated by the side of the man in his doorway.

“I was raised in the woods,” Guydelot quips, as if that were unusual in Gridania.

Despite all his posturing to the contrary, the bard possesses enough social grace to close the door behind himself, as Sanson notes when he turns around again. The latter indicates the chair before his desk with the tilt of his hand, and Guydelot grabs the back of the crude wooden chair and twists, settling it on the ground between his legs and sinking into it in one smooth motion, straddling the seat in the worst possible imitation of an unscrupulous youth.

Sanson’s unaffected gaze settles for the barest moment on the stretch of Guydelot’s leather trousers across his thighs, strained in the position and clinging to the muscle beneath, and he forces his glance to something less... _preoccupying,_ namely the pack dangling from his fingers.

“Ah, this?” Guydelot notes the subject of Sanson’s attention as the Adder captain settles onto his pristinely-made cot, for lack of another seat. “I got something for you.”

“For me?” Sanson’s surprise leaves him unguarded, a flash of earnestness dancing over his features – something he is sure to be teased for later, as is the usual. No matter what he does to deprive Guydelot of ammunition, the insufferable bard just _digs it up._

“Yes, for you, you dunce,” Guydelot replies, rolling his eyes again with an exaggerated gesture. “Did you forget about Starlight?”

Sanson had not. Merely he did not register the holiday as an important event for his personal schedule. He had no one to give presents to, and less than that to receive presents _from_ , so it would just be another day for the Twin Adder and another day for him as well.

“It’s next week,” Sanson says blandly, in an attempt to save face – because surely Guydelot had not been thinking about Sanson? Surely Guydelot had not devoted space in his airhead skull to planning a gift for Sanson, let alone spend his precious drinking gil on the man?

“‘It’s next week’,” Guydelot imitates him in a nasally voice. “Starlight is a _season,_ you big stiff. Admit it – you didn’t think you’d get anything for Starlight, so you’re pretending it’s _just another day_ , impressing your higher-ups with your diligence and making your peers sad on your joyless behalf.”

Sanson opens his mouth.

Then closes it.

Opens it again.

“Hit the nail, did I?” Guydelot asks, and his tone is _different_ – he’s dropped the light, joking, mocking tone he’s always cloaking himself in like a second skin, and instead he’s looking at Sanson as if he’s just _looking_ at him, instead of looking for things to tease him about.

There’s a heat that Sanson feels rising in his face and he wants to kick himself for being such a _schoolboy._

Guydelot’s eyes are knowing, gentle even. “I won’t tattle on you,” he says, and for all his bluster and bravado Sanson knows Guydelot the Spent is a man of his word. “Besides,” he continues, “the point’s moot. Here. I brought you something, remember?”

Sanson starts as Guydelot makes to toss the sack onto the bed, but apparently the bard thinks better of it with a grimace, and passes it to Sanson with careful, ungloved hands.

For a moment their bare fingers touch, and Sanson’s throat tightens a little at the contact. _What in Hydaelyn has gotten into me?_ he wonders to himself, wordlessly opening the hempen sack and drawing out the meticulously paper-packaged bundles within.

There are two of them, weighing firm and cool in his hands, and from the heft Sanson can tell they’re the same; so he sets one aside and places the other in his lap, fingering the waxy paper with his forefinger and thumb before slowly peeling it apart, unwrapping the gift.

The fruity smell hits him first, setting his mouth to watering. He’d never smelled something so rich; when he sheds the last layer of paper and lays eyes on the gift, he shakes his head in thinly veiled disbelief.

“ _Snurbleberry tarts?_ ” Sanson can scarce wrap his head around the picture he’s been presented with. Guydelot had somehow seen fit to spend his meager, hard-earned gil on the most extravagant sweets one could buy – and not for himself, but for _Sanson?_

The red jelly is already beginning to stain his fingertips, similar to rolanberry but for its prized barely-sour bite.

Guydelot seems like he’s about to say something but – bless his heart – he only nods at the tart as if encouraging Sanson to devour it _right now_ , which he’s happily about to with or without permission.

Maybe he’s visibly drooling.

But he can hardly help himself – it’s the most _gorgeous_ pastry he’s ever lain eyes upon, the dough surrounding the jellied filling perfectly symmetrical, even slightly squished as it had been in the bag. How in the seven hells had Guydelot even _found_ these? They must have cost him a fortune –

“Stop _thinking_ about the damn things and try one, will you?” Guydelot says gruffly, and Sanson only flushes a little, unable to counter him as he had indeed been doing exactly that.

The tarts came pre-cut, and Sanson balances a slice in his fingers and takes a gentle first nibble; rich flavor explodes across his tongue, the sort of flavor that surely only the High Houses of Ishgard ever got to taste, and he can’t stop himself from swallowing it quickly down and taking a greater, greedier bite. Halfway through the piece he remembers his manners and pauses to inhale, blushing what he is sure is a crimson to match the snurbleberries at the sight of Guydelot just watching him eat, a gentle, almost fond look in his eyes.

Sanson lowers the piece from his mouth, his lips surely also stained.

“What is it?” he asks, a little more crisply than he had intended, sounding truly annoyed with Guydelot instead of the slightly-put-upon tone he adopts to contrast with Guydelot’s snark. “Is there something on my face?”

Unaffected by the tone, Guydelot grins, a lopsided smirk that makes Sanson’s stomach twinge with – anticipation?

“As a matter of fact, you do,” he says, and raises his thumb to brush at the corner of Sanson’s mouth.

Sanson freezes in place, carefully not shivering an inch as his body so _desperately_ wants to, barely even breathing but for the tiniest exhale through his nose.

Guydelot has the grace to look embarrassed. “Sorry,” he says, blinking and pulling his hand away. “I just –”

“S’fine,” Sanson mutters through a mouthful of tart, deathly impolite, but he’d shoved the rest of it into his mouth in order to avoid having to react to this... _predicament._

He coughs a little, a hand over his mouth.

“Sweet Matron, Sanson!” Guydelot’s making a face at him. “Where are _your_ manners?”

“I’ th’ woods,” Sanson chokes back, eyes watering and hand pressing more firmly into his mouth, carefully working his jaw against the thick gelatin, thoroughly embarrassed by his panicked reaction to – what? An awkward silence? _Ridiculous._

Apparently the response is Sanson enough for Guydelot to roll his eyes yet again. “You’re insufferable, did you know that?”

With one last pained swallow and a hurried grope for the water jug he keeps by his bedside, a quick swig from it to clear his throat, Sanson replies. “As are you.”

“Maybe, but not like – Ugh,” Guydelot pinches his temple. “Judging from your suffocation attempt, you like the present?”

The switch in both topic and tone gives Sanson a moment of pause.

“It’s wonderful,” Sanson responds quietly. “Thank you.”

Guydelot doesn’t dignify the manners with a response beyond a conspiratorial wink. “And am I to understand that, given that you didn’t expect any gifts, you also did not pick out gifts for the wonderful bards in your life?”

Sanson’s mouth opens. Then closes again.

“I’ll have sad news for the Warrior of Light when we cross paths again,” Guydelot says airily. “Straight from the fish’s mouth.”

Sanson sighs. “Do you want me to pay you back for the gift?” he suggests, already standing from his seat on the bed to make for his desk and his coinpurse stashed within. “You must’ve spent so much on me, and I’ve nothing in return –”

“Oh, quit it,” Guydelot cuts him off, waving him back to his seat. “They were dirt cheap. Now that Rowena’s House of Splendors has an appraisers’ tent outside the Stalls, all sorts of adventurers are putting the masterpieces that didn’t make Rowena’s gil-happy cut on sale for gil on the bronze piece.”

Guydelot’s right about that, if nothing else. The House of Splendors deals in thousands upon thousands of collectables a day – where do the slightly-less-than-collectable collectables go? On the market for cheap, of course.

“Even so,” Sanson stresses, “it’s wrong of me to accept something for nothing in return. How much were they?”

“Not a gil.”

Sanson pauses, takes a deep look at Guydelot’s wolfish grin.

“And why is that?” he asks, knowing already that he doesn’t want to know the answer to the question.

“I may have... hm... pilfered them from a retainer in exchange for a ditty about her lovely brown eyes,” Guydelot responds easily, jerking a thumb to his harp, strapped firmly to his back just as his bow and quiver are, together just as they should be – for a bard, at least.

“And _I’m_ the insufferable one?” Sanson responds, a little higher-pitched than expected. “You’re feeding me _contraband_ and _I’m_ —”

“But they’re delicious, right?”

Guydelot’s grin is impossible to argue against.

“...yes,” Sanson admits begrudgingly. “But the point stands, Guydelot: _do not steal!_ Not even with ditties about maiden’s eyes! _Especially_ not on my behalf; you had me thinking you’d picked out some thoughtful gift on my behalf, and I—”

Guydelot stands out of his chair, rising over Sanson, who had not reseated himself as Guydelot had indicated earlier. The latter’s height was not so diminutive as to be dwarfed by Guydelot’s stature, but he still found himself looking up into Guydelot’s face, all handsome angles – a face that bends down closer to his, staring right into his eyes, making Sanson lean back just a _little_ bit in response.

“I did,” Guydelot responds, his light eyes searching Sanson’s face. “Out of the thousands upon thousands of luxurious _things_ I could’ve picked, I picked the one that you couldn’t possibly complain about. Nothing _useless,_ nothing _unnecessary;_ I know you, Sanson the Stiff, and I know a sweet is the only luxury you can’t make a case against.”

Guydelot straightens, leaving Sanson’s cheeks feeling a little cold, the latter not having noticed the fanning of Guydelot’s exhaled breath across his face until the absence of it could be felt.

Leaving Sanson struck standing in the center of his room, Guydelot steps over the chair and to the door, walking with an easy, loping stride, deceptively dexterous when he opens the door with barely a twist of his long fingers.

He halts in the doorway to look back at Sanson, still unmoving.

“And as for a present... hm... I suppose you can just,” the saucy wink he dusts the following declaration with could only be suited for a courtesan, “owe me a favor.”

And then he is gone, the door closed quietly behind him, a jarring contrast to the noise and bluster with which he had swept into Sanson’s room, into his life.

Sanson gapes at the door for a few moments, still starstruck, until a shiver racks his frame; his muscles had begun to seize in the awkward position.

 _I really am Sanson the Stiff,_ he thinks to himself, before burying his face in his hands with an audible groan.

He seats himself back on his cot, careful of the unfinished tart – _two_ of them, Guydelot _must_ know they’re going to be snatched from the icebox by some sticky-fingered private since Sanson absolutely, positively can’t finish even _half_ of one on his own – and pondering when his life became such a mess.

Damn Guydelot! Damn him and his perfect features, the way his lips had framed the word “favor” like something as rich as the snurbleberry tart, the creak of his leather trousers as he’d nearly split them on Sanson’s chair, the touch of his thumb against the corner of Sanson’s mouth –

_Gods._

Sanson rubs his face with both hands, and glances over at the tarts.

Well.

In characteristic _Stiff_ fashion, Sanson resolves to take the entire tangled mess of feelings surrounding Guydelot the Spent and shove them away until some indeterminate time at which he will be forced to confront them.

Likely whenever the owed _favor_ is called in.

But for the time being...

He has half a tart to plow through, and a tart and a half to hide strategically in the icebox so no one will think to touch them.

Maybe he should threaten any would-be thief with sentry duty somewhere _especially_ miserable. The Coerthan border, perhaps – sure to be frigid this time of year.

The cogs in Sanson’s head churn away once again, as they are wont to do when Guydelot is not near enough to make them jam.

And the robin in his eaves returns to its song, calling hopefully for a distant mate to answer.

 

 

**Author's Note:**

> edit to this a/n: bc i finished the brd questline through 70 - im so sorry!!! i should have mentioned more abt the 60-70 questline in the fic if i wanted it to be post sb, i suck, but i might write smth else addressing that so!!! take this fic as post sb msq but brd 60-70 hasn't yet happened :V and if i continue this sort of thing, ill address that there too, heh.
> 
> i know it's past starlight and into late heavensturn, but listen: i'm gay?
> 
> it's been on my mind for a few weeks and i've only gotten around to writing it now.
> 
> hmu on [twitter](twitter.com/gayprotagonist)


End file.

**Author's Note:**

> ~*oooh, exposition!*~

A small raen stands before a sliding door. Her tiny feet are unshod. Her horns, barely grown.  
  
“Mama,” she says in a shy voice to the door, “take me with you.”  
  
The shadow on the other side shifts. “We have already discussed this, little one. It would not be safe.”  
  
She squeezes the ragged goat doll in her hands. “Please?”  
  
“We have already said no,” says her mother’s voice. “The wards will be removed upon our return. We will only be some hours. Be good.”  
  
“Mama,” she repeats, and then hears the dreaded sound of fading footsteps. “Mama!”  
  
No answer. Just silence. They always leave her behind when they go down the mountainside to the trading post—here in their shared room, where there are no windows and no toys. She only has one—a toy—her precious aldgoat Toto, worn and limp, sewn together from fabric, with eyes of lacquered pebbles and flopping horns. The room itself is bare; there are two futons for Mama and Papa each, and a smaller one for her. They tell her she’ll get her own room when she’s old enough to help them build it.  
  
It doesn’t get as cold inside as it does outside, because of Mama’s magic. She can sit and practice her spells here comfortably, but she would rather be in the snow than on her futon, and she would rather be climbing rocks than waiting for the wards to be dissolved so she can open the door again.  
  
She resigns herself to sitting, crossing her legs, looking at quiet Toto in her hands. If only he could talk and play.  
  
Mama’s futon smells of mountain flowers and sweet powder. She falls asleep holding Toto to her heart.


	2. legacy

Mama has her learning reagents and memorizing herblore by the time she is seven.  
  
It starts one stormy evening, and never stops. She is taught to read, and to write, even though the language the battered books Mama brought with her from the place she lived in before is strange to her. They speak only Auri in the house, and her hand is caned if she lets a foreign word slip in her absentmindedness. She is quick to begin keeping counsel to herself. It makes her quiet, but it is not as though she had someone to talk to beforehand, anyhow.  
  
Still, she loves them, Mama and Papa, as studious and stern as they are, for she would be nothing without them. They teach her about how the world works—that wide world she hasn’t seen much of—and she knows she’ll need the knowledge wherever she goes later on.  
  
While they sleep in their futons, breathing softly, she watches the sun come up over the mountains, painting the cloudless sky pink and orange and red. She watches everything, really, drinking in every detail and relation laid out for her observation: she watches the people in the village and the reclusive animals that skirt around their settlement, the brave winter birds that fly from the mountain when the snows are high, and things that were not obvious to her before become clear. Mama and Papa are frightened, and nature is relentless. The sun always rises, and the mountain has a mind of its own. These are all certainties of life, like the blue of the sky or the flow of water.  
  
She becomes aware of her own intelligence the day she realizes no one in the village asks the questions she does—or wants what she wants. Not even world-weary Papa, tall and noble, wants to leave the safety of the city carved into the heart of the mountain. There aren’t many here, so half of the place is left uninhabited, and she wanders the place after her lessons are done, as though its ghosts will come alive and tell her about the times when Yamakage was full of raen. What were they like? Did they, too, hide from anything they thought dangerously different?  
  
Mama has told her the story so many times that she knows the words by heart. Before the people of the Dawn Father settled themselves amongst the strange races of the mainland, mingling with the hyur and their warlords, they had been a nation of their own, with their own language and customs and magics. They had their own territories and did not fight the battles of men.  
  
The lands beyond the mountain are full of war, and raen hate war more than anything else. And when war had come to their doorstep, Mama and Papa had left the seaside city of their birth, taking with them their likeminded fellows, and made the pilgrimage to Yamakage. The journey had been long and difficult, and many had died en route—a distant nightmare she will never know—and when they had arrived, the ancient city had been nigh uninhabitable. But they had a place of their own, away from the strife and cruelty of fearmongers, and it had been what they wanted.  
  
She’d been born a day after they arrived, not a moment too soon. The other women had helped carry Mama up the slope and into the city, since she hadn’t been able to stand for the pain. Yamakage, the sanctuary in the stone, is all Sekka has ever known.  
  
“Sekka,” Mama’s voice says. She is jolted back into the present, where they are sitting on the large reed mat in the center of the common room, Mama’s ingredients spread out all around them. The mortar in her lap is heavy, and her mother’s grey eyes are disapproving. “I will not have you poisoning a patient because you are driven to distraction during sessions.”  
  
“I apologize,” she murmurs, looking down at the paste she has created with her pestle. “I was only thinking.”  
  
Mama’s expression softens, and not for the first time, Sekka understands why she was named the way she was. Kawako—a river child, mutable, fluid, the rapids of her mood always changing, flowing seamlessly into one another. It can be exhausting, the way Mama moves from rigid irritation to tender understanding. These qualities make her a relentless teacher, one that demands nothing less than the absolute best, whatever your absolute best may be at any given time.  
  
“You are a curious girl,” Kawako says, reaching out to brush a pale strand of hair out of Sekka’s face. “So very much like me, at your age. Inquisitive and bright. Shall we finish the poultices?”  
  
That makes her smile, even just a little, as she nods. Mama’s compliments are hard-won.  
  
They work in silence for the rest of the remaining time.


	3. birthright

She is six months into being twelve when Papa builds the extension to the house, giving her a room to herself.  
  
It’s not as bare as the bedroom she’s been sleeping in since she was born—she takes care to make sure she brings flowers in for the sill, and that the shelves of her little bookcase are lined with pretty pebbles she finds on her sojourns outside; Mama is not entirely happy with the frivolity of it all, but she is too diligent of a daughter for any reprimand to truly hold. She is dedicated to her studies despite her youth, and her solitary nature keeps her from complaining overmuch about the lack of children her age. These are all things she knows, even as a youngster, and she draws them about her like a shield, building a barrier that no critique can breach.  
  
Mama worries that she will not be able to sleep alone, but she proves that concern unfounded. She leaves Toto by her pillow now, because the sight of him comforts her, though she does not need to hold him any longer.  
  
The day her first blood comes, Mama braids her hair, gives her a crown of snowbells, kisses her forehead, and lets her see herself in the reflection of an old mirror kept in the common room wardrobe. Kawako runs a hand over her milky-blue plaits, catching her narrow chin between two fingers.  
  
“Every day you grow more and more into her likeness,” Kawako says, expression unreadable.  
  
She blinks. “Who?”  
  
“My mother,” Kawako admits. She brushes Sekka’s cheek with the back of her knuckles. “You are her mirror image. She was known for her strange beauty—and her eyes. Even among us raen, this color is rare.”  
  
Sekka stares at the girl in the mirror, standing beside her lovely mother. It’s true—she and Mama have never really looked alike. Where she is pale, Kawako is dark. Mama’s hair is the tone of burnished steel, her eyes clear like ice; even her scales reflect light that way, with their shimmering gradient of silver. In comparison, she is rather static. At least, that is what she believes. Mama runs a loving touch over one of her eyelids, smiling softly at the prickle of white eyelashes.  
  
“Like quartz, or sakura blossoms,” Kawako says, nodding at their reflections. “See?”  
  
“I suppose,” Sekka murmurs. No one has likened any of her features to either before. She always thought of her eyes as just pink. No gems—no flowers. Just… pink.  
  
Kawako chuckles. “Come. Let us show your father.”  
  
Sekka stands as Kawako shuts the doors to the wardrobe. “You never speak of her,” she says, and Kawako freezes mid-gesture.  
  
“No,” Mama says after a pause. “I do not.”  
  
And they leave it at that.


	4. questions

The older she gets, the more she realizes just how respected Papa is in their community.  
  
The others look to him for guidance and advice. He is the first to be consulted when a structure caves in or supplies are later than expected. The villagers confide in him about their lives and sorrows, their joys and hopes, and it is with a growing sense of dread that she comes to accept they probably consider him their leader. It isn’t difficult at all to see why they would: he is commanding in more than just appearance, silent and strict, but fair, objective and vigilant. He stands a good half-head above most of the men in Yamakage, broad-shouldered and long of stride. He is built like a warrior, though he is repulsed by the song of weaponry.  
  
She can see more of herself in him than she does in Mama. As she eats her dinner, she watches him pore over a scroll in the common room, cross-legged and utterly focused, the long tail of his white hair hanging down his back. She wonders how he came to the decision to bring them all here, so far away from… everything. And everyone. What did he leave behind?  
  
There is not much she can profess to know. Mama and Papa do not mention their parents. They do not mention what it was like for either of them before Yamakage. They do not mention Doma more than they must, and seem content to live as though the world ends at the foot of the mountain. Her only true clue is the family name—Torioi—if that was not manufactured upon their arrival in Yamakage. Papa certainly lives up to its meaning regardless. Every anzu and falcon in their rookery has known the warmth of his compassion and the iron spine he displays when demanding obedience.  
  
“Is there something you wish to ask of me, daughter?” he says, without even looking up from his scroll.  
  
“Nothing that can be answered while your attention is divided,” she replies honestly. She sits back on her cushion and attends to the last of her rice.  
  
He glances at her. The warm gold-grey of his skin makes his yellow eyes look like chips of citrine. “Very well. Later, then?”  
  
She nods, and he goes back to his work.  
  
‘Later’ turns out to be after she has put away the bowls and cleaned away the evidence of supper from the low table in the common room; Papa is still wading through the scroll, which has multiplied since the last time she checked—there are now at least two on his left and a few more on his right. They seem like inventory reports. She does not envy his duties in the least. When she returns to the common room for the final time to settle in for the rest of the evening, he has put the scrolls aside and seems to be waiting for her, hands folded into the long sleeves of his dark kimono.  
  
“Papa?” she says, a little hesitant.  
  
“It seemed as though you wanted to speak with me,” he clarifies. One imperious eyebrow arches at her. “Or was I reading your intention wrongly?”  
  
Her mouth is dry. “No,” Sekka tells him. “You did not. I simply… I thought you had forgotten.”  
  
He smirks, one corner of his mouth crooked up—he has a way of making the most minimal of actions appear incredibly sardonic. “Have you known me to ever forget anything?”  
  
“I have not,” she says, maybe more regretfully than she desired. One can never rely on Papa’s memory failing him: he has a mind like a steel trap.  
  
“Will you be seated?” he asks, his expression losing its edge. “If there is aught troubling you, I would have you trust me with it.”  
  
She sinks into her customary cushion. “It is nothing truly worrying. I have—some questions. About…”  
  
“About…?” he prompts patiently.  
  
“I want to know more of how our trading arrangement with the xaela operates,” she blurts all at once, and the words do not stop when they’ve started. “I want to know more about where I—about where you and Mama are from. I want to help you, however I can—I just want to learn. How much more of the city lies unexplored? How can you be certain our suppliers will appear at the appointed dates?” She casts her gaze down at her folded hands, her voice lowering to an uncertain murmur. “We are so few. Do you—do you never… feel forlorn?”  
  
There is a long silence, and for a terrifying, petrifying moment, she thinks she has upset him. Overstepped her boundaries. Suddenly, she cannot bear to look down anymore, and lifts her gaze to his. The contemplative—almost melancholy—set of his features gives her pause.  
  
“You are nearing your seventeenth winter,” he begins, slowly. “I should not be shaken by your curiosity. But in my mind, you are ever the babe in your mother’s arms. Quiet and observant. Red-faced. And so tiny.” A small, genuine smile overcomes his expression. “You did not squall even half as much as the rest of them. It seems as though that were yesterday…”  
  
She has no idea what to say. “Papa…”  
  
He clears his throat. “It is of no import. I will answer your questions. It is time you learned.”  
  
She could not have stopped the beaming grin that causes. The joy he has just given her is priceless. “Thank you! Thank you,” she says, feeling as though her heart will burst.  
  
Papa reaches out, ducking her under the chin with a gentle touch. “You gladden my heart with your delight. Come, let us make some tea. We have much to discuss.”  
  
She is so excited she nearly drops the cups.


	5. conscious

Mama tries—very valiantly—to teach her the way of the healing magicks, how to empty her mind and channel the energies of purity outward. She can handle the most middling of injuries, tiny cuts and scrapes, but the other complexities of spells Mama uses escape her. She is too focused, has too innate a sense of self (that must be a more cordial way of telling someone they are too selfish)—it is a state of being inherently incompatible with the impersonal nature of healing. Any nursing she will be doing will have to involve poultices and herbs. She is not overjoyed by the increase in alchemical studies, but handles it with the usual measure of acceptance due of a necessary evil.  
  
The destructive aspects of magic, however—they appear to her readily. Earth is unwieldy and sometimes inelegant, and it does not always listen, due to its close ties with the kinder side of magic; fire is obedient, but explosive, and the anger she has to summon to create the intensity she wants with it exhausts her, and so it is not often her first choice. Air is unwieldy and flighty, and far too mischievous for her liking. She does not call on it with any sort of frequency. Water is terrible in the sense that it has so much utility, and it is the first element she learns to cast with—her first true friend, perhaps.  
  
From water springs sister lightning, brittle and swift, and one of her favorites. It chirps and burns and sparks, air coalesced into a more tolerable form, so bright and brisk. She practices with it in the vegetable patches, scaring away vermin with the zap and pop of improvised spells. If she singes her own eyebrows at some point during one of these numerous attempts, it is neither remarked upon nor questioned (and for that, she is grateful).  
  
Ice is the last she develops, but it is the one that comes to her most naturally. It is not as loose as its mother, water, and not so uncontainable as fire. It is the beautiful symmetry of earth without its bulk, the whimsy of air without the infuriating rebelliousness. She finds that the lethal delicacy of ice suits her tastes like nothing else. Rather than enduring the arduous process of drawing water from her surroundings, she simply has to command it to freeze. It is almost effortless, and the discovery makes her giddy.  
  
Mama is no sorcerer, though she is a skilled healer, and all the guidance she can offer is technical—scrolls and educated guesses, well-meaning warnings and a cautionary tale or two. She cannot be thrilled her only daughter is more suited to the battlefield than the infirmary, but there is no changing it.  
  
She never tells her mother that if anyone dared to try harming them, she would not hesitate to use everything she has learned.


	6. twilight

The rookery is her choice of retreat.  
  
She scrambles over the rocks to the topmost collection of roosts, finding a patch bare of droppings, sits herself down, and cries every angry tear she wouldn’t let slip in front of Papa. She cries, and beats her fists against her knees, and cries more, shoulders heaving, and she is glad that the only witness to her childish, raging grief is Hayate, the silver falcon who is Papa’s favorite above all. He is perched on the stone closest to her, watching her with inquisitive amber eyes, his grey plumage ruffling in the breeze.  
  
“I am old enough!” she had said to Papa, losing her temper in a rare fit of emotion. “I am old enough and I have never left this place—never so much as set foot anywhere else—I _deserve_ —”  
  
“Your freedoms are privileges—they are _earned_ , and they can be _revoked,”_ Papa had yelled back, the first time she had ever known him to raise his voice. “You have not left because there is no reason for you to leave, and because the world beyond the mountain is not your concern.”  
  
“You cannot keep me here forever!”  
  
“The depth of your ingratitude shames me,” he’d hissed at her, not stopping when she had flinched away from him. “Your mother and I have kept you safe, sheltered, spared you from pains you would have known as well as breath and blood, and you _shame_ us this way.”  
  
She had trembled, biting her lip, fingers losing feeling. “Is that not a parent’s calling? You make it sound burdensome. Would you cast me from your affections for—for asking to see more?”  
  
“I see now that we have been remiss in our education of you,” Papa had said, so tired and disappointed and finished that it shriveled her heart in her breast. “You have grown complacent—you have forgotten your duties, and what is required of you. You are not an adventurer, no roving ruffian or inquisitor. You will _never_ be. This discussion is finished.”  
  
And so it had been.  
  
She’d fled from their home, quick to withdraw, ignoring Mama’s pleas, only able to focus on the roiling anger, the stinging hurt—she loves them, _loves_ them, obeys them, works twice as hard and goes thrice as far as any; she trusts them, admires them, hoping that somehow what she’s done, how good she’s been, will make up for the vast difference between her desires and theirs. Is it simply nature for discord to rule between children and their parents, to constantly erupt no matter the effort afforded? Or is it simply in _her_ nature for there to be discord in everything she does?  
  
What must be altered for this horrid emptiness to go away?  
  
Why _can’t_ she be happy here, amidst her people, by her parents’ side, away from the strife Mama and Papa are so sure lives outside of Yamakage?  
  
It must be a fault of her own—some innate flaw in her design that does not allow her the quiet contentment that seems to come naturally to her fellows. That is the only explanation.  
  
Weeping is an ugly thing, and she does not like to do it more than she must, but now it seems like the tears will not stop. She never knew words could deal such wounds, so fearful that they feel mortal. Her mind says there has been no betrayal, but her heart screams the opposite.  
  
When she’s close to being unable to breathe for the force of her sobs, Hayate’s chilly beak touches her on the thigh. She startles, looking up into his beautiful aquiline face, searching his glassy stare for some miraculous answer. She finds none. The bird is four times her size, with a wingspan that could easily engulf her, but for something so cruel, so large, so delicate—he is so gentle. She strokes at the downy feathers over his keel, feeling them slip between her fingers like liquid silk, sniffling like a babe when he lowers his head to preen at her hair. He is trying to comfort her, in his own way, the only way he knows how.  
  
“It isn’t fair,” she whispers to him, as he carefully moves tear-stuck strands of her hair from her temples with the razorpoint of his beak.  
  
He chirps, short little trills of sound, nestling the curve of his face against her neck. She clutches at him, taking solace in his presence, wondering if she’ll ever be at peace again.


	7. resolution

She spends her nineteenth birthday alone.  
  
She watches the sun go up over Yamakage, sitting swaddled in furs at the topmost part of the aerie with Hayate’s wing curled over her shoulder. They don’t question it if she is gone overnight any longer—home has grown smaller and smaller these last few years, wooden walls pressing in.  
  
She casts off the furs—they are more for comfort than warmth, anyway—standing while Hayate blinks against the morning light.  
  
Far beyond to the south and east she can see the glittering waters of The One River, stretching across the flat expanse of the Steppe; she’s read about the sea of grass to the south, the cradle of the Nhaama, sacred to the xaela, and the forested reaches of the Fanged Crescent, green and lush, growing on verdant slopes, over and alongside ancient ruins. In her childhood it was enough to dream about getting to see them—to only look at the ink on the parchment and try to picture what it would feel like to run her hands over the longrass of the plains—but now she wants to make that wisp of a dream a reality.  
  
The time for _imagining_ is over.  
  
“Take me flying,” she tells Hayate, brushing her hand along his spine.  
  
He warbles at her, deep in his throat, and she climbs onto his back, her legs hugging his sides.  
  
Her stomach drops when he guides them over the ledge; the sheer force of the wind tearing past her face makes her laugh, once, shortly, and he does a little flourish, just for her benefit. She knows he will not come with her when the time comes—Hayate is fulfilled as king of the aerie, and he loves the mountains too dearly to go anywhere else.  
  
There will be a moment when she will have to say goodbye: to him, and to everything she has called her world for her entire life. But that moment is not today.  
  
Today she will pretend she can touch the clouds, that she is the one with wings—and that she will never have to touch ground again.


End file.

**Author's Note:**

> And so it begins... This chapter is a lot of smut, but think of it as "the stage being set".
> 
> As always, your thoughts and comments are much appreciated! I hope you enjoy this little "obsession" of mine. (Sorry, bad pun, but I had to...)

Despite all the gentleness, the smiles... Aymeric knew he only pretended at godliness, of righteousness. There were certainly hints of something darker, he thought, hints he showed to the woman they called the Warrior of Light, albeit unintentionally. The way his eyes would lower, the bitterness in which he told her to at least let him do something after all she had done. Though he knew he was grateful for all that she, this petite yet powerful woman named Mariya, had done, his pride as a man and a warrior felt unease with how very weak he seemed in comparison.

In his hearts of hearts, he knew he was not a pure soul.

After all, when he thought of the power difference between them, his mind would flash with ways in which he might overpower her, not on the battlefield but in a different struggle.

As time passed and he saw less and less of her, his mind would wander to these places, of a certain dream he had thought he had buried and forgotten, memories of the subtle way a certain woman’s lips, so full with the color of a blush rose, parted just a touch when their eyes met, his pale blue to her sun gold. When they had met that first time, he was sure he already knew this girl, though it had not been clear at the time.

Memories.

His father, his father by blood, had always been a touch cruel. Plagued as his bastard son, Aymeric had done everything in his power to prove he was worthy, of becoming a Temple Knight, of being the man’s flesh and blood. And yet, any sense of weakness was failure in his father’s eyes. At a young age, Aymeric had become Lord Commander of the Temple Knights and yet his father could care less. A touch of indignation in Aymeric’s eyes, however, and the old man’s cruel zealots of the Heavensward would throw him into the Vault’s hidden dungeons, often beating him in the struggle.

How many times this had happened, Aymeric wasn’t sure, but he had been angry, so very angry at his father, as well as the mother he hardly knew, the mother who had imparted his handsome features but also a lifetime of whispered glances and continuous rumors. Never should a boy have to fear the hate of his fellow kin for the sins of his parents. But that was not Aymeric’s fate. His bitterness at the price he paid for what he had no part in, of the circumstances of his birth, of an infidelity that labeled him worse than lowborn, drove him mad.

And, in the darkness of his cell, he wanted nothing more than to destroy something pure, something innocent, if only to show the world how he had not deserved the life he was given. That cruelty only beget more cruelty.

Something called to him that night, nursing his wounds as he stared into the pitch black of the dungeons, his ardent wish breeding a force that swept him in the wake of his anger and despair.

He remembered his eyes opening, standing in a forest, a sea of greens and browns. It was night there, as he looked at the sky, the stars so very bright.

The sound of light and quick footsteps. Turning, his blue eyes saw a young woman, Hyur, beautiful beyond belief, calling out to him. She had to be hardly older than twenty (if even that), long black hair, half tied with two braids meeting at the back, skin the color of light sand, the shimmer of sweat on the curve of her neck, eyes the color of bright gold. He had always been fond of gold.

“Master, are you alright?” she cried as she looked up to him. Her gold eyes widened as she realized he was not whoever she had rushed to see, his image reflected in the glassy gaze. Her lips, soft and slightly parted, drew his attention for a fraction of a moment, yet lingered in his thoughts, his hands reaching for her hair, tangling themselves in her locks.

She smelled of purity, of a maiden who had yet to know how very terrible the world could be.

Yes, Aymeric thought, this would do.

Nay, it would more than do; it was perfect. This beautiful girl was the picture of innocence in every way, perfect in every possible way...

And he, Aymeric de Borel, would destroy her.

No, he had not been in his right mind, but anguish did terrible things to a man. His eyes took in her features, the look of both awe and trepidation, the oval face with near perfect symmetry, the mound of her breasts moving up and down with heavy breaths, her waist the perfect size to match wide hips. His ears rang with the title she had used to call out to him, even if it was purely by mistake, and he brought himself close to her, his breath on hers.

It was like love and hate all mixed into a cocktail that drove him insane.

His lips crashed on hers, tasting her, and he thought of berries and sun. Coaxing her mouth open, his tongue invaded her, searching roughly for more to taste, more to feel. Her hands gripped the fabric of his tunic, but she did not struggle, not much at least. He was reminded of the sweetest wine as he pulled away, her breath even heavier than it was before.

Long fingers roamed down the girl, grabbing at her hips as he pulled her against him, growling against her ear, dragging his teeth on her skin. Her whole body shuddered, a gasp escaping her lips, and Aymeric felt such power and control. He pushed her then, to the ground, her back against him as his fingers played with the hem of her long tunic, his desire obvious as he ground his hips against her. The most luscious sound escaped the girl’s lips and he felt heat to his very core, anger leaving him with just wonton lust.

Grabbing her wrists, he pinned them to her back, her face against the grass, his free hand finally slipping under her tunic and down thick leggings, underneath her undergarments.

“Please, I...” she gasped, writhing against him as his fingers found her already wet, making rough circles around sensitive skin. “Ser, please...”

“Call me ‘lord master’,” Aymeric breathed into her ear, his fingers dipping just a touch into her sex, causing another delectable sound from her mouth. “We may not know each other, but I will make you remember me.”

She writhed against him, her back arching as he worked her furiously, playing her as a bard might play a harp. Her instinctive movements, pushing back against his hips, drove him over the edge and he flipped her onto her back, tearing at her clothes like a rabid beast. And yet, she showed no fear, just surprise. The look in her eyes, reflecting the light of the moon, gave way to a reverence in Aymeric’s heart, that perhaps someone finally saw him as he truly was, both of his light and his dark.

For several breaths, his hands paused. She now free of both her outer garments as well as her small clothes, his eyes took her in, this precious girl, and he could not help but feel admiration and, perhaps, affection. Her innocence, her beauty, it was all too much to bear, as if he had a goddess or an angel beneath his fingers.

And he wanted her, wanted her more than he had been angry at his parents or his situation in life. He kissed and tasted her skin, biting here and sucking there, all eliciting a chorus of gasps and moans, her skin electric against his. When he took a taut nipple between his teeth, just enough pressure to cause a hint of pain, she arched her back with a cry, the heat of her body extravagant against him.

By the Fury, he was lost in everything, in that moment. That he could evoke such a symphony of sounds from such a wondrous being made him hunger for all that she could give, to push her to her limits, of how much pleasure and pain he might be able to teach her.

With quick fingers, he untied the belt around his waist, freeing his aching need. It was then that a touch of fear appeared in her eyes, a line between her brows. That her eyes pleaded with him... He enjoyed that very much.

“My lord, I...” she breathed, “Lord master, I have not...”

He smiled, wicked and wanton. The very sound of her voice made him ache.

“Do not worry, my dear, dear princess. The pain will pass and never shall you know pleasure quite like this...” He brought his lips to her ear. “But you must beg for it.”

Her eyelashes fluttered as her eyes closed, her breath growing deeper, heavier. From the blush on her cheeks, he knew he had hit a mark in her thoughts, her soul.

“Please, lord master,” she sighed, her whole body shaking, “please take me...”

“Good girl,” he hummed, a small nip to her earlobe. “My precious girl.”

He brought her legs around his waist, she gazing up at him with her whole body open, so very open to his eyes. At that moment, he wanted to memorize it all, the feel of her, the taste of her, the smell of sex and earth and sweat, the image of an innocent angel about to fall at his hands.

Slowly, painfully slow, he pressed himself into her. She was tight, as he had expected, her whole body shaking as she took him inside of her. Elezen men being well-endowed comparatively to other (shorter) races, it was a wonder to him that he could fit at all. Her cries, every push in going deeper and deeper, grew loud until she screamed, her back arching as her chest pressed against him. He knew then he had broken through her maidenhead, her hands gripping tight to her shoulders, tears at the corner of her tightly shut eyes.

It was beautiful. So beautiful that he kissed her open mouth, kissed the tears from her eyes.

With his forehead touching hers, he worked her slow and gentle, the difference between night and day in comparison to just moments before. When she began to push back, their hips meeting as they found a rhythm, he kissed her again but fiercer, harder. His thrusts deepened as he sped up his movements, their bodies like crashing waves against each other.

He was in love. Aymeric de Borel was in love with a girl whose name he did not know. This dream girl who had bled all his anger and hatred away with but the softness in her eyes and the warmth of her embrace.

“Come for me,” he whispered into her ear, more urgent than commanding. “Come for me, my love. Let me hear your voice so that I may die a happy man.”

Fingers gripped on her hips and he pulled her hard against him, feeling himself fill her so very completely. It made her cry out, her back arching hard as her nails dug so hard into his tunic, he thought it cut through.

“Ah, ah, ah...!” she gasped, holding onto him tightly. “I’m coming, I’m coming, I’m coming...!”

Nothing had ever sounded so wonderful to his ears. So wonderful, indeed, that he pushed himself to make her come again and again, until she all but lost consciousness with exhaustion, her last orgasm pushing him over the edge, to spill his seed deep within her. Breathless, Aymeric held her close, he still inside her, holding onto this memory as much as he could.

With eyes closed, he pleaded.

“Tell me, what is your name, my love?” he asked, words soft. “Please, I must know...”

“Mariya,” she said, her eyes fluttering close, her fingers combing through his black hair, “For you, Ser Aymeric...”

When his eyes snapped open, he was again in the darkness of the Vault’s lowermost levels. There was a crushing despair, hoping against hope it had not been a dream.

Years past and he began to forget, especially as the Calamity turned Coerthas into a sea of ice and snow. Her name was lost to time and space, though he could remember bits and pieces in the dark hours of his office or bedroom, when he was too tired to think of duty or of work. Just a flash of skin, sand-colored, lush lips open, the taste of salt and sweat on his tongue. All of his friends called him chaste, but little did they know it was because his dreams were haunted by the image of an angel who called him by name. His angel with gold-colored eyes.

And then, he saw her again. By fate or by chance, his pale blue eyes gazed upon his dream lover years later in the intercessory of Camp Dragonhead. Her eyes meeting his, this time in the flesh.

But her gaze did not linger. Mariya, the Warrior of Light, turned to another, the light touching her gold irises as she smiled sweetly.

Never before in his life had he hated, hated an old friend and a brother by choice, hated someone with such clear passion. And he hated Haurchefant Greystone with the fury of Halone herself.


	2. Like Father, Like Son

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> A reunion, of sorts. A bit more smut, but also a bit more dialogue. It's a slow burn, my friends... I mean, aside from steamy moments with Ishgardian boys.
> 
> As always, spoilers abound for Heavensward and Stormblood.

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> I would like to say, before anything, I do love Haurchefant and I cried SO hard at the scene at the Vault... you know the one... So please don't take this, any of this, as a slight towards the character. If anything, well... *weeps again*
> 
> As always, please enjoy. :)

Aymeric had never knew the kind of self-control it would take to merely be in her presence, the Warrior of Light, the angel of his dreams, Mariya who had fought Primals and the empire. He had no idea that his fascination for the one bearing the title would lead him straight to the object of his absolute obsession. And yet, he had to remain seated, calm, pretend that the sight of her in the corner of his eyes did not make him want to climb over the table and take her.

What a beast he was, he thought, even as his mind tried to piece an appropriate response to young Alphinaud Leveilleur. How little did everyone truly knew him.

And yet, the Dravanian Horde was at Ishgard’s door and he had duties to attend to, a city to protect. The thought came to him that he had but one chance, one chance to know if his dreams had been merely fantasy or if the fire in his skin was truly an echo of past experience. As he followed Lucia to the exit of the intercessory, he paused, his body still and his eyes narrowed.

Ever faithful, Lucia turned to him, an eyebrow raised.

“Lord Commander...?”

“Pray,” he began, his voice unwavering, “give me but a moment. I will join you shortly.”

She nodded, giving her usual salute. Faithful, unquestioning Lucia. He waited for his second-in-command to leave the room before walking to the door, his fingers sliding the lock closed.

When he turned, Mariya looked up to him, her eyes wide and questioning.

“I would like to meet with you,” Aymeric stated, the tone indicating more of a command than a request. “In my quarters. At the strike of midnight.”

In his eyes must have been a determination that brooked no objection, for the woman (never one for many words) gave a single nod, her hand at her heart. Aymeric, in a breath, wondered if he should have been relieved, but no. His heartbeat was erratic, an itch in his hands, electricity in his fingertips. If he could only reach out and...

With a bow, he unlocked the door and left the room, feeling the heat dissipate in the cold of Coerthas.

Halone forgive him, he was not the man they believed in.

Waiting in the silence of night, not a sound but the snowstorm that billowed outside and the wood crackling in the fireplace, Aymeric shut his eyes, thinking of nothing but a memory. Where it was once just a faded daydream, it had come back in full force in the days where she had been so close, yet so far. Her black hair was shorter now, cut right at the chin, but the cut made his eyes linger on her lips, the shade of blush rose that had haunted him for so long. Her gold eyes, the last he saw her, was the same as when his had first gazed upon her, the light dancing in them, so questioning, so curious. Just a touch of hesitation, but never fear. Never, ever fear.

There came a knock on the door and he opened his eyes, staring into the fire for a breath, before turning to the door.

“Come in,” he stated, his voice cool like the weather outside.

Mariya, his blessed and beautiful angel, walked in, though she wore not her armor, but an adventurer’s coat over a tailored blouse and a red skirt, thigh high boots conforming to the shape of her legs. Aymeric took in a breath and held it for a fraction of a second.

“You wished to see me, Ser Aymeric?” Her voice, the light and sing-song of it he remembered all too clearly.

“Yes. Please, come in.” He turned again to the fire. “And close the door behind you.”

The moment the door shut, a crease formed between his brows, his hands flexing, open and then close, repeated a second and a third time. He could not look at her, for to look at her would mean his downfall.

But he could feel her, feel her presence as she stepped closer, hear her breath in the quiet. In, out, in, out. He counted them, one, two... on the tenth, he turned to her, finally.

“I have but one question for you, not as the Warrior of Light, nor as a Scion, but...” He licked his lips, secretly amazed at the sheer strength of his composure. “As the woman named Mariya who hails from a far land.”

Her hand reached for her heart, her eyes turning to the fire before she returned her gaze to Aymeric, giving a small nod. Another breath, deeper, and a sigh. One step and then another, the tall Elezen drew closer. Close enough that he was within arm’s reach of her.

“Do you remember me?” Aymeric asked, his already deep voice dropping low and soft. “For I remember you, you who have haunted my dreams for the better part of a decade.”

She blinked, looking up at him, just as his hands reached for her, fingers gathering her hair in them. Even the feel of her hair against his skin told him he knew this sensation, knew her as a man would know his lover. The space seemed to close between them, his lips dangerously close to hers, breath against breath. Halone strike him down, he would weather any storm, fight any beast, dragon or otherwise, for just this moment. Even betray a dear friend...

Her hand touched the cloak around his armor, just above his heart.

“Yes, I do.” Her voice was barely above a whisper, but Aymeric thought it rang like thunder in his ears. “I remember you very much, lord master...”

His mouth was on hers, then, pushing her lips apart so that he could, finally, taste what he had yearned for, yearned for years in the quiet of sleepless nights, in dreams that left him aching and sick with desire. It was a gift from the heavens, he thought, and he refused to squander something so precious. He bit on her lip, so sweet were they, like ambrosia from the gods.

But her hands pushed at him, begging him to pause.

“I can’t,” she breathed, even as the light shone in her eyes, her lips bruised from his. “Haurchefant...”

Aymeric’s pale blue eyes narrowed.

“I refuse,” he stated, his grip on her only tightening. There would be bruises on her arms in the morning, he was sure of it. “Is he your lover? Even if he is, I had you first. You were mine before you ever set foot in Eorzea.”

“He is not, no... but...”

“No.” He stared into her eyes. “You haunt me in every waking moment, every time I but think of rest. You have driven me mad, Mariya, and I will not let fate or nature take you from me again.”

Eikon-slayer, Bane of Ifrit, and so many other titles. She may have been the Warrior of Light, Defender of Eorzea--but here, here in his arms, she was his and his to have and to hold. To touch, to taste, to feel. Whether or not Hydaelyn had sent her to save the realm, to him she was but a woman he wanted--nay, loved--beyond all reason, he worshipping the very ground she walked on.

Her touch lifted from his chest, her fingers curling as a closed hand rested against him. Her eyes looked away, the light of the fire dancing in her eyes. Aymeric lowered himself, holding her close, his lips parted so that he breathed against her skin. This was not the reunion he had expected. (Though, had he expected one at all?)

“I have loved you for what feels like a lifetime,” he whispered, holding her tight, but not crushing. “If you will not have me, then so be it, but I cannot shake the thought of you, the feel of you, from my very skin. I would let the dragons turn Ishgard into nothing but fire and brimstone, if it only meant that you might love me in return.”

“Ser Aymeric...” He could feel the air escape her lips, the brush of warmth against his ear. Her fingers touched his cheek, gentle. His eyes shut, relishing the feeling, as she spoke again. “I had always thought... you were a dream. Maybe a vision, at most...”

“But I am here, right now, with you.” With a touch to her chin, he turned her face to him, that their eyes might meet, that she might see his sincerity, his desperation, even as it was laced in his pleas. “I do not know what force brought us together, the first time or this, but I would give you the world just to have your heart as you have mine.”

Her fingers touched his lips, tracing the curve, her eyes moving from them to his gaze.

“In my heart,” she sighed, “I know I cannot escape you. That the sight of you sends shivers down my spine, an ache in my body and my soul. If I had known...”

He smiled at her, smiled at her as a man smiled at his lover on the day of their wedding, the day a beloved child is born from a woman loved by her spouse, sheer joy and relief in his gaze. Mariya gazed up at him with awe, the sincerity and depth of his emotions for her to read so clearly, like the brightest stars on the clearest night skies. Aymeric was a man of many gifts and titles, but if there was one truth to him, one singular defining trait, is that he was a man whose passions knew no bounds.

It was Mariya, this time, that touched her lips to his first, kissing his lips as her eyes fluttered close. It was all Aymeric had ever wanted and he pulled her into his arms, lifting the shorter woman from her feet, breaking their contact only to carry her properly, bringing her to the large bed he had slept in while in Camp Dragonhead. All the while, she placed kisses gentle but urgent, against his cheek and down his neck, her dainty fingers combing through the dark hair at the nape of his neck.

Pulling away from her, Aymeric gazed at his angel, his beloved. In a singular moment of clarity, he whispered a silent prayer.

_Forgive me, friend. As is the father, so is the son._

As it came, it was gone, and Aymeric’s eyes lingered on the woman in his bed, seeing again in both his memory and in front of him. With dextrous fingers and years of habit, he pulled his cloak and all the trapping of his armor from him, belts and buckles slipping open, everything dropping with the ringing of metal against stone. And, with each movement, his angel’s eyes never left him, watched him as if seeing a vision from the gods.

This time, Aymeric was more gentle, more patient, even as he had to force his hands from ripping the clothes from Mariya’s body, his body aching to bury himself in the smell of her, the feel of her, the warmth of his skin on hers. Even as he worked buttons and clasps free, his lips kissed skin, the dip of her throat, the hollow point between her collarbones, every inch of flesh that revealed itself as he pulled her free from the fabric that kept her skin from his, his tongue dragging between the valley of her breasts.

It was better than his memory, his fantasies, for he knew it was real, that his angel was but flesh and blood in his hands, the heat radiating from her enough to melt all the ice of Coerthas, the coolness of his composure. Her fingers brushed the hair from his eyes, lingering at the space below his ear, the smallest touch as reverent as his thousands of kisses.

Finally, bare skin against bare skin. He gathered her breasts in his hands, perfect handfuls, his thumbs making circles on taut nipples. She moaned in his mouth, the slightest shudder sending electricity into his very veins. That such a strong and powerful woman, gifted with the strength of the very heavens, could be but clay in his hands was a heady and powerful elixir. And, even if the gods were to strike him down, he wanted to relish every second of it. To see her bend to his will and his wants.

A growl came from his throat, and he bit at her neck, eliciting a sharp gasp, sucking on the skin hard so that it might bruise, a bruise for all to see. His hand slipped between her legs, finding her wet with desire, so very wet, his fingers sliding like water upon the rocks. He breathed into her neck as she shuddered, small little gasps and heavy breaths from her lips, as his fingers dipped in and out of her, made oh so very slow circles around the most sensitive of flesh.

When he pulled back, she pouted at him, even as his hand remained between her thighs, his touch slowing just a touch. And, from the dark places in his heart, a smile formed on his lips, his eyes heavy with lust.

“Oh, have you forgotten?” he asked, a snarl as he pressed two fingers deep into her. “Forgotten how much I enjoy it when you beg...?”

The invincible innocence in her eyes, the blush in her cheeks, made him toy with her more. This, this he could control. The gaze in her eyes, the parting of her lips, it was but the one piece of his life that he had complete and utter control. And that, to him, made all the injustices and responsibilities thrust upon him worth everything he had ever given, to Ishgard, to his father, to the family whose name he bore. Just to have this woman, his angel from lands so far away, met in a dream of desperation, bend to his slightest touch.

Her pouting gave way to gasps and soft little cries.

“Please, please,” she breathed out, as if she might be drowning, drowning in Aymeric de Borel’s need for her. “Please don’t tease me...”

He smiled wider.

“Is that how you ask?” He chuckled, relief in her handing him control, of indulging him. “My sweet girl, you know better than that...”

Her face was crimson, eyes under lashes gazing up at him.

“Please, lord master...” Her eyes shut, her whole body shaking. “Please, make love to me, lord master...”

He kissed her cheek, soft and warm, heat from his breath against her ear.

“See, tis not so hard, is it?” He dragged his teeth against her neck. “My love, my angel... my beautiful slave...”

With strength and speed, he flipped her onto her stomach, fingers rough as they pushed into her, feeling her tighten around them, his free hand on the small of her back. With all the pent up frustration of so many years, he worked her furiously, unrelenting as the wind and snow outside. It was but a moment before she screamed into a pillow, grasping tight fistfuls of cotton in her hands.

Aymeric smiled, leaning back to sit, touching his fingers to his lips, tasting her against his tongue. Sweet and salty and everything he had hoped for and more. His own ache, however, painfully reminded him of his own needs.

With a firm but not too rough touch, he pulled her to her knees, one of his pushing her legs wide open as he teased her with his sex, letting it slide against the lips of her opening. She shuddered, hands desperate to hold onto him, grabbing his arms as he slipped his fingers, the fingers that tasted of her, into her open mouth.

“Please, my lord,” she begged oh so sweetly, all breath as her body shivered. “Please...”

“Please, what?” He whispered into her ear, his tongue darting against her earlobe, dragging down her neck.

“Please make me yours, my lord, my love, my lord master...”

Oh, the sound of her voice at those words. Aymeric thought he might die then and there.

It was an interesting angle. Positioning himself, he brought her down, her thighs spread across his lap as he pushed into her, the feel of her so very exquisite and all too familiar. One arm draped across her stomach, his other hand muffling her loud moans, he used his strength to push up as he brought her hips to meet his, building a rhythm that was intoxicating. In a brief moment of lucidity, he wished he had a mirror, if only to see what her face looked like as he made love to her, the way her body looked as he moved inside her.

Perhaps, he smiled, another time.

Instead, he slid the hand around her waist down her abdomen and between her legs, finding that oh so sensitive spot given to all women. Barely a touch and she screamed into his hand, her body tightening around him. Beneath a growl, he smiled, biting again at her neck as his fingers worked their magic between her legs, all the while continuing to thrust into the warmth of her most sacred place.

Her body made lewd sounds, a symphony to his ears, her body awash with pleasure with proof in the waterfall between her legs. She came, rapidly and repeatedly, crying out muffled screams, until she collapsed against him, barely conscious. For a brief moment, Aymeric just held her close, kissing her shoulder with adoration on his lips.

He knew he only pretended at power over her, that she had no true obligation to him, so many years between that night in a forest he had never stepped foot in. And so, he held her close, her back against his chest, their breathing matching breath for breath. In a rare moment of weakness, he felt himself weep, tears dropping on her warm skin.

What a fool he was, he thought. He had wanted to destroy her and now he wished for her to love him. When he had felt anger and indignation at the slights from those who would judge him, he felt guilt and sorrow at what he had done to a girl so innocent, so long ago. How could she ever feel for him what he knew he had felt for her since he heard his name on her lips.

He felt her shift in his arms, sitting on his lap, as her hands touched either side of his face, bringing him to look up at her.

By the Fury, she truly was a being of the divine.

In her eyes was a kindness Aymeric had not expected. She smiled at him, its brightness touching her eyes. He sighed as her lips touched his temple, a kiss to each side, before the most tender of touches to his lips, hers against his. He felt a smile lift the corners of his mouth, her arms wrapped around his neck as he brought his arms around her, breathing her in as he buried his face in her neck.

“Thank you,” he sighed, pale blue eyes opening as he gathered his thoughts, the feel of Mariya, his divine made real, in his arms. “Thank you for seeing me as I am and not what the world would make of me.”

She ran her slender fingers through his hair, curling her fingers at the locks at the back of his neck.

“To you, the same,” her voice came, soft and gentle. “Thank you, Aymeric.”

He held her tighter then, his whole body against hers. In the quiet of the night, he pulled away to look into her eyes, a faint line between his brows, one finger brushing the hair from her cheek, his touch lingering for several moments.

“I beg of you, please stay.” Never had he shown this side to anyone, not a soul. No one but her. “Let me wake and know that this is not another dream... please...”

Her eyes held his for what felt like forever, golden irises gazing into his very soul. She glanced up and brushed her fingers against his hairline, pushing his hair to the side. The silence tore at him, his mind turning to prayer for her to just allow him another indulgence. She had gone from just a girl, to a woman, to an angel, to divinity incarnate, but, at the end, she was a woman he simply loved. If he but ask her, he would give everything and anything to just be by her side...

But she would never. He knew this, knew she would never ask him to leave his home, Ishgard, or his people, just for her sake. And yet, she would deny another man’s affections at his behest. Aymeric knew not why he deserved such a gift from the heavens, from Halone herself.

One day, though, he swore he would do his damnedest to prove himself to her, his love, his Mariya. She was the Warrior of Light to all else; but to him, a woman he but met in his dreams, who taught him love, a woman he needed to prove (to himself or to her?) he deserved.

“I will stay,” she sighed long, dreamy. “If only because I am too tired to make it back to my own quarters.”

He laughed, finally, a full and truly happy laugh. And for once in several, several years, he slept in peace, his arms around a woman petite and powerful, holding her close as she dreamt alongside him. As he drifted to dreamless sleep, he wondered at the perfection of their bodies entwined, the way his Mariya fit just so right next to him. Perhaps his fate was not so cursed, after all.

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> As always, comments/thoughts/suggestions are much appreciated. I promise there will be fluff incoming!
> 
> I mean, come on, Aymeric is all fluff in the game. I love that everyone is always "why is he so freaking earnest all the time?"


	3. A Long Day's Journey Into Night

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> In which Aymeric finally gets his head on his shoulders. No smut in this chapter, thankfully (?).
> 
> Here there be angst and fluff, good friends, confessions, and SPOILERS.
> 
> Spoilers for Heavensward (like whoa) and Patch 4.1 (if you squint).

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> Haurchefant, blessed pure soul... If you haven't played through the Vault in HW, I would suggest doing that before reading this chapter. Trust me, you'll really, really need to.
> 
> To all others traumatized by THAT scene (you know the one), forgive me for bringing back such sad memories. I totally feel you. I cry watching it every time. D:

She had been in Ishgard for about a month, Aymeric considered, glancing at his desk for the solar tables. Mariya, full name Mariya Lugria, known to the realm as the Warrior of Light. At Haurchefant’s request, through Count Edmont de Fortemps, Aymeric had gone to the Archbishop to allow “the Warrior of Light and two of her fellows in the Scions of the Seventh Dawn entrance into the Holy See of Ishgard”, as Aymeric had put it, two bastard sons asking their fathers for an asylum for friends and loved ones. Watching as Mariya, Alphinaud, and Tataru left the Lord Commander’s office--Aymeric’s eyes always lingering on his would-be beloved, she who single-handedly saved Ishgard (his very home!) at the Steps of Faith not so long ago---it was a truth hard to believe. And oh so hard on his nerves.

Haurchefant sighed, standing to the side of the Lord Commander’s desk, and Aymeric’s pale blue eyes glanced to the man. There was a soft smile on the man’s lips, even as Aymeric kept his features (hopefully) unreadable. He did not get to his station, after all, on martial strength alone. And yet, he couldn’t help but envy the simple nature of the man, that he was as free as any bastard son in Ishgard, perhaps even better. At least he had a father who actually gave a damn.

“If I didn’t know any better, Lord Haurchefant,” Aymeric began, his hands resting in his lap. “I would say you might be in love.”

Haurchefant laughed. He had always been a man who wore his heart on his sleeve. Aymeric could not help but smile, though inwardly there was a pang of guilt... but also curiosity. Maybe even a touch of jealousy.

“My friend,” Haurchefant shook his head. “It is not I alone who is in love with the great Warrior of Light...”

Their eyes met, blue against blue, and for a second, Aymeric felt an urge to beg forgiveness, that he had not meant it as a slight.

But he didn’t. Instead, Aymeric pretended to pick up a report on his desk and glance through the words on the paper.

“Oh? Do go on.”

“My friend,” Haurchefant sighed, stepping to stand in front of his desk, as if he were but another soldier. When Aymeric looked, there was only a smile on his friend’s lips, a gentle gaze. _Halone forgive me_ , Aymeric thought. “I am no fool and we have known each other for some time, have we not?”

Aymeric shut his eyes, leaning back in his chair.

“Forgive me, I...”

Haurchefant, blessed Haurchefant, waved a hand to dismiss his words.

“There is nothing to forgive,” the silver-haired Elezen bowed with his words. “I saw the way your eyes met that first meeting. If she so chooses you, then who am I to judge?”

Aymeric stood, his steely expression gone as his eyes pleaded with his friend.

“Haurchefant, please...”

The Knight of the Silver Fuller gave a wide grin to Aymeric, raising a gloved finger in the air.

“Ah, you misunderstand,” he all but laughed, his smile touching his eyes along with the light in the room. “I have no intentions of giving up. At least, not without a fight. A fight between friends.”

In those words, in those simple sentences, Aymeric felt he knew who was truly the better man, but he could not concede, not on this, not when he was just so close, when _she_ was so close... Haurchefant’s pleasant laugh cut through his thoughts and Aymeric could only smile, resigned to his friend’s enthusiasm. Leave it to Haurchefant Greystone to make the best out of everything.

“You are simply incapable of being unkind, aren’t you?” Aymeric laughed, though his was softer, quieter.

“Perhaps,” Haurchefant chuckled, all smiles. After a second, he gave another grin to Aymeric. “Though, you might consider it is not just the two of us who would fight for her hand...”

One dark, sculpted brow rose, Aymeric folding his arms with the silent question. Haurchefant waved with another bow, as theatrical as he usually was, before turning halfway, gazing at the space where Mariya once stood, the doors she had just left from. His smile softened and, Aymeric wondered, if there was just a hint of melancholy.

“No,” Haurchefant chuckled, soft. “I do believe our dear friend Ser Estinien is a bit more taciturn than usual around her, but yet oddly earnest.”

Aymeric touched the tips of his fingers to his temple, gritting his teeth.

“There must be some disease among us,” Aymeric stated, even as he breathed out the starts of what might be laughter. “Who would know that Ishgardian Elezen men would have such a weakness towards one Hyur woman?”

“One very singular Hyur woman,” Haurchefant stated, his smile brilliant. “Need I remind you of all her titles and recognitions?”

Aymeric shut his eyes shaking his head.

“No, not at all. But that is not what either of us mean, is it?”

And, for once, Haurchefant Greystone, ever the one for enthusiasm, said nothing, his eyes seeming to see some vision before him. Aymeric gazed at that expression in his friend, his dear friend, and he realized that there were not enough apologies he could ever say to the other man that might free the dark-haired Elezen of his guilt. No wonder he was the bastard son of an archbishop, he thought; only a man obsessed with shame could bear a son who wallowed in the same.

Haurchefant bid a farewell and Aymeric watched him leave. So much did he want to say, but knew it would do nothing. For what could he say? That they met in a dream before she had come to Eorzea and he would lay claim on her for that? It sounded preposterous to him, even if he had lived it, did live the truth of it. How could he explain to anyone what he could not fully understand himself?

And so, he sat in his chair, silent as his friend exited his office. Ser Aymeric, Lord Commander of the Temple Knights... and a man who forsook friendships for what he could only describe as an obsession, an all-consuming and disastrous affection for a single woman by whose very nature attracted everyone around her. What a poor sod he was, he thought, closing his eyes. Even still, though, he could smell her hair, taste her skin on his lips.

By the Fury, he wanted her so much at times he forgot all sense.

Yet, he could not simply waltz up to the Fortemps Manor and request her attention. No, no, that would not do. How could he explain such a brazen act if he could not very well explain how he, a man who had never left Ishgard for long outside diplomatic duties, knew the Warrior of Light, who was not from Eorzea at all. His Mariya. Though, he sometimes did wonder if he knew her as well as he thought.

From where did she hail? What was the name of that forest from so long ago that they had been so intimate in? Who was she before all the trappings of titles and heroism?

Lost in thought, Aymeric stared at the papers on his desk, his arms folded, unable to read or think of whatever task he had meant to complete that night. Images flitted through his mind like the pages of a book, the way his lover’s hair fell beneath her when he was above her, the soft blush of her cheeks, starlight reflected in her gold eyes. The feel of her hands against his skin. The heat of her body as she pressed against him.

Aymeric pinched the bridge of his nose. What sort of man was he that he delved straight into the physical when it came to her, his Mariya, Warrior of Light to all but him?

When he closed his eyes, though, his inner vision lingered on one memory, one sight: the sweetness of her gaze--the boundless fount of forgiveness, her unlimited kindness--smiling up at him when he but glanced her way. Just to see her smile at him again, he wondered if he might suffer all of each of the Seven Hells. Nay, he thought, he would probably do more.

A knock came to the door and Aymeric looked up, effortlessly regaining the cool composure he was so well-known for.

“Come in,” Aymeric called out, his eyes focusing on his door, anything to get his mind off of Mariya.

But there she was. Striding (unaccompanied) back into his office, the softest smile across her lips.

“Ser Aymeric,” she said with her characteristic nod.

“Lady Mariya,” he replied, standing. Finally, he retained at least _some_ of his wits. “I did not expect you to return so soon. Is there aught amiss?”

Her eyes drifted to the side, her mind obviously in thought. Seconds passed and she looked back to Aymeric, the candlelight reflecting in her eyes and setting a warm glow (nay, halo) around her face.

His blessed angel of Halone.

“... What are we?” she asked, her voice soft. “To each other?”

Aymeric blinked, surprised to hear the words. Then again, he thought, he knew he did not quite know himself. All he knew was...

“Surely you must know...” he began, his eyes all but pleading with her. “I...”

“Please, do not say it,” she sighed, a glimmer of tears in her eyes as she touched a hand to her heart. “How can you be so sure, even, that you... feel that way? Everyone... everyone asks of me to do what must be done, but never do they ask who I am, what I may need, what I hope for...”

Aymeric let his guard down, the implacable politician in him dissolving as his eyebrows raised, concern deeply etched in his gaze. He walked around his desk, going to his beloved, a touch to her chin so that she may look at him. This guilt was quite different than what he had felt before, but behind that was a longing, not of the physical (for once), but for one woman’s happiness.

“I will hear it, if you will allow me,” he stated, just a touch above a whisper. “I will hear all of your story, your wishes and desires... as you have heard mine so many times. Whatever you may need, I will do my damnedest to give it, give all of it, to you.”

Her eyes looked up to him, something of surprise but also... gratitude. Aymeric smiled at that, smiled a smile not born out of necessity or even desire, but of an unguarded heart. And, like that, she melted into his arms, he draping the cloth around his armor around her, a ghost of a kiss to her hairline. She felt so warm, so very right, in his arms, her hands holding on to him.

He knew by the shaking in her body, her small shoulders rising and lowering, that she was crying. Even though she made no noise, he knew. Yet, he simply held her closer, tighter. In his heart, Aymeric knew the Warrior of Light lived with a mask of stoicism, of unending bravery. After all, he was a man who had lived in a similar fashion for so long. He knew the toll it took on one’s spirit, one’s heart.

Mariya’s hands wiped at her eyes, though she made no effort to pull away. At least he could give this small comfort, Aymeric thought, though it was not enough. Never enough. But it was a start.

“I have no home,” she said, her voice for his ears only. “Once this is all over, if it ever is, my home country will still be lost, buried under rubble and death...”

Aymeric touched a hand to her hair and kissed the top of it, touching her cheek to his heart.

“You will always have a home here, in Ishgard,” he spoke with all the earnestness he could muster, the strength of his feelings surprising even him. “Whether with me or those in House Fortemps, you will always have a home to return to. This I swear... but I know it must hurt, to have lost so much and then being tasked with even more here...”

“More than anyone knows,” she began, pulling his arms around her as tight as might be comfortable. “Aside from you, now.”

“And you can tell me everything and anything, if it would but help you. ‘Tis the least I can do.”

They retired to another room, one where they could sit in relative comfort. He called for wine and they spoke long into the night, sharing their pasts with each other, though Aymeric listened more than he spoke. He learned that she was born in Ilsabard, a country that the Garlean Empire had taken decades before she was even born, her parents resistance fighters that died soon after her birth at the hands of the conquerors. Raised by her grandmother in an empty temple turned into a makeshift fort, she left Ilsabard for Eorzea when the empire had found its location, a siege coming for her and her fellows, forced onto a boat even as she begged to die with her friends, her loved ones. She was but eighteen summers old and yet she already knew the pain of crushing loss.

It was truly a wonder that she was so kind in the end, helping everyone and anyone, friend to beastmen and man alike. Bearing the burdens of Eorzea without so much as a moment of rest and then being claimed a murderer of a friend, villainized so easily when all she had done was try to be there to help.

Aymeric had, at that moment, wished he had stayed in Ul’dah that night of the banquet, that he could have been there to protect her. That he could have done anything to help his love, even as she lost contact with so many who would call her family. He wished, so much, that he had done more for her.

And he told her as much.

With the warm glow of fire flickering in her eyes, she gazed up at him, smiling with such gentle sweetness. It was at that moment, that singular moment, that he decided to devote his life to her, that he would bring peace to his people and, with hope, be free to journey with this woman who would be the light of Eorzea, defender of its people... so that he may at least be given the chance to protect her.

But, when it came time, it was not him that protected her...

Haurchefant, in the end, died for her, died in Aymeric’s arms while the man asked for but one smile to ease him into the Halls of Halone at the very top of the once so holy Vault. The killing blow that had been meant for Mariya was taken, instead, by Haurchefant Greystone. The killing blow ordered by Aymeric’s own father.

And never had Aymeric seen the Warrior of Light so destroyed, Mariya openly weeping as she held Haurchefant’s hand, even long after he had passed. Remaining at the spot even when Haurchefant’s body was taken away, tears so plain in her eyes.

What a fool had Aymeric de Borel been, to think he could reason with the man who sired him. Had he hoped that, in the end, perhaps his father cared more than he showed...?

In that singular decision, Aymeric had hurt Mariya more than he knew anyone else had. How could she ever forgive him? Did he even deserve it?

It took Estinien and Lucia holding him down for him to not run out of the infirmary that night. He needed... he needed to see Mariya, to comfort her as he knew she was already setting out again to save Ishgard, holding back the crushing despair so that she may serve Eorzea once again, save Ishgard from its own people...

Aymeric lost all sense of pride that night, tears slipping from shut eyes as Lucia and Estinien waited on him. When he looked on them, his dear friends, he knew from their shocked faces that they had not expected it from him, his openness.

And he told them everything. He told them of all his hidden fears, of all his guilt, of everything he had hoped for, of how much he truly loved Mariya, only for everything to be ruined in a single moment. That he could never, ever be as brave or as giving as Haurchefant. That it should have been him in Haurchefant’s stead...

Estinien gazed at him for a long moment, he knew, and then took off his helmet so that they met eye to eye, the seriousness in the glint of Aymeric’s old friend’s blue eyes.

“Do not dwell on the past,” Estinien stated, his voice determined. “Do what must be done, as Haurchefant did... not wallow in regret and shame. If you truly care, then stop being such a daft fool and rest so that you wake up strong enough to do your godsdamn duty, to your people and to _her_.”

Lucia, sweet Lucia, smiled and gave a nod.

“Fear not, Lord Commander,” she stated, kindness and devotion in her green eyes. “We will act in your stead until your wounds have healed.”

Aymeric gazed at his friends, gratitude washing over his every feature.

“Thank you, my friends,” he said, a glimpse of a smile on his lips. “I do not deserve such kindness, but I am full glad that you remain steadfast.”

“So will she,” Estinien replied, his voice a touch softer than it ever had been in all their years of knowing each other. “I have no doubt that, in the end, Mariya will do everything in her power to see your dreams become reality. For you and for Haurchefant.”

“I just hope,” the dark-haired Elezen began, sadness threatening to overcome him yet again, “that I might one day deserve what she does for me, for all of us, for Ishgard and all the rest.”

“Perhaps one day.” Estinien smiled, shaking his head. “Now rest, you bloody idiot, so you can start your work on that very hope. Hold fast to it, your promises, and anything is possible.”

Lucia, a smile touching her eyes, bowed her head in agreement.

“Lord Commander, you are not a man to give up hope so easily,” she stated. “It is a dark night tonight, but I believe in you as I am sure the Warrior of Light--nay, Lady Mariya--does. Now rest, my lord. There is much we have to do once dawn breaks.”

“Of course, of course,” Aymeric stated, his eyes shutting as he saw a clear path, a clear path to hope and also for redemption. “Thank you again, my friends. Thank you for everything.”

And with smiles from his friends as they departed his side, the Lord Commander of the Temple Knights finally sought rest, falling into dreamless sleep, feeling his determined spirit returning. He would do everything in his power to deserve the trust and sacrifice his friends gave him, of the devotion of a woman who gave him and his country her all. To prove to all and all that ever might be, that he was a man who could protect the ones he loved.

It was not enough, but it was, at least, a start.

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> Okay, updates should be about once per week after this. I will try to keep at it, but I hope you can be patient with me!
> 
> Thank you, as always, for reading. Your comments/thoughts/suggestions are also greatly appreciated!
> 
> Until next time, my friends.


	4. To Start Anew

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> In which Aymeric tries to do his part, for love and country, becoming more of the man he wants to be.
> 
> As always, HW spoilers like crazy.

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> Woo, sorry about the delay. I had this written a few days ago, but my I've been grinding in FFXIV to catch up with my FC-mates.
> 
> Anyway, I hope this doesn't seem too rushed. We're moving at lightning speeds, my friends...
> 
> As always, I hope you enjoy! Any comments/suggestions/etc are greatly appreciated.

That people--whether the people of Ishgard, the Scions of the Seventh Dawn, or even his friends--began to see more and more of Aymeric’s true colors, less of the calm and collected (and cold) politician and more of a man of great passion, it bothered him not. In fact, it seemed only to add more to the trust others placed in him. In what he once thought as weakness, people saw a man who cared deeply for his people, whose fire was one that people could rally behind. Most importantly, though, he felt free, free to be who he truly was.

And yet, as his heart was want to ask these days: what of the Warrior of Light?

Always moving with purpose, always shouldering the greatest of burdens, Aymeric could only watch in dismay as Mariya put up her mask, the only hint of it in the light no longer reaching her eyes. In the intervening time from the Vault and the Treaty between Dravania and Ishgard, he knew she had lost much: Haurchefant, Ysayle, even perhaps Estinien, nevermind those Aymeric had never met: a woman named Minfilia and others she had yet to name. And still, she strove ever forward, determined and (he thought) a touch broken.

It hurt him that she did not seek him out for comfort, that he might at least ease her suffering if only for a moment. No, as soon as she would arrive back in Ishgard, the Scions would set a plan and off she would go again. He wondered, truly, if she ever slept. If she ever had a moment to herself.

So, when the opportunity arose that Aymeric could do more than just sign papers and make speeches, he took it. He would plead the case of Ishgard to the great Hraesvelgr, the Warrior of Light and Alphinaud Leveilleur at his side to guide him there.

What he did not expect, however, was the great beauty he saw in Dravania and the Churning Mists, of the gentility of Vidofnir who bid them past Sohm Al, of kindness when he expected none. It was in the Churning Mists, the vistas that deserved only the greatest awe, that Aymeric could not hold his thoughts back, the skies filled with stars so very bright. Against his better judgment, he asked for a moment in the ruins of a courtyard that stood beneath the wonders of the place called Zenith.

A campfire prepared, Mariya prepared a small meal of what roots and vegetables they could find, Alphinaud gathering wood for the fire. In the two of them, there was a melancholy as they gazed at the fire, silence thick with unspoken emotions. Alphinaud asked to take his leave long before he was truly tired, his exhaustion so obviously not from the exertion of walking all the way from Ishgard to the Churning Mists. Mariya watched Alphinaud retire into their small tent, her eyes ever discerning, the barest hint of concern laced in the crease between her brows.

At the young Elezen’s departure, Aymeric sat down close to Mariya.

“Pray, tell me your thoughts,” he asked in the quiet.

There was a long sigh as her eyes shut.

“This was a place of a happy memory not so long ago.” She took in a breath and he could see her shoulders shake. “Alphinaud, Ysayle, Estinien, myself... just a brief moment of peace and friendship, of grudges lessened and moments of hope.”

She gazed at the palm of her hand, gloved as it were by leather and steel.

“But Ysayle is gone...” Tears fell from her eyes. “Gave her life to save ours, only for Estinien to be... If I had only... If I had been brave enough to stop him...”

“Mariya...” Aymeric reached out a hand, a soft touch to the nape of her neck, as she fell into him, more and more tears spilling even as she held back the sound of her cries. She did not, Aymeric knew, want Alphinaud to see her like this, Alphinaud who looked up to her and saw a hero that he could rely on, an older sister that would guide and protect him, a woman in whom he placed all his faith.

“I did not want this,” she sobbed into the blue and gold fabric around Aymeric’s armor, “I did not want the people I love to sacrifice themselves for my sake... How can I be called a hero when the very people around me... people I love and care for... all... die...”

Aymeric felt her sorrow in himself, felt it to his core. Part of him blamed himself, for asking for her help time and time again. But, as a friend said to him, he needed not to dwell on the past, of what he could and could not do, of what should or could have been. So, he pulled Mariya into his arms, his beloved in his lap as he cradled her, holding her close as he cooed softly into her ear, his fingers combing through her hair.

He knew then, why she had kept her distance, why she nearly refused his invitation for just a simple drink.

Always for the sake of others. Always for his sake. She would live in solitude if it meant the safety of her loved ones.

“It is not fair to you, my love,” he said as he placed a kiss to her hairline, “that you should bear the burdens of an entire continent, nevermind the nation of Ishgard. And... for that, for what you have lost on my behalf and my people... forgive me. Forgive my selfishness from the moment we ever met, my ignorance to the suffering you have carried all this time. I do not know how I can truly ever repay you for what you have done, what you continue to do, how anyone ever can... but I would do anything, anything at all, so that you might know some measure of peace.”

“Thank you,” she said, half muffled between the fabric and her stifled cries. “I do not know why you care for me, but I am... grateful. Even from the beginning, I knew that you were a kind soul. If it was to ease whatever pain you had, I would give it... then... and now.”

Aymeric felt shame wash over him. He had not been himself then, nor even that time in Camp Dragonhead... and yet...

“I do not deserve your trust... or your affection,” he stated, convinced of the words. “What I nearly did to you, what I have asked of you, of what I have costed you... I find that I deserve no more than the Seven Hells, much less your kindness.”

Mariya sighed, her fingers tracing the intricate embellishments of blue and gold on the fabric around his armor.

“In you, I see someone who understands me. Who regrets what they ask of me, rather than simply taking it for granted that I will never complain. Someone who sees me and thinks not of the title given to me, but a girl who is as weak as she is strong, a girl who was but a maiden seeing a vision of an all too real dark-haired angel in a forest of Zeltennia...”

Part of him smiled. To hear her think of him, especially then, like that--it was strange considering how much regret he carried over it even as it nearly consumed him.

“I apologize,” he half laughed with an exhale of breath, “for being so rough with you. Then. I was not... quite... in my right mind...”

He could feel her smile, even over the plate of his armor.

“I could see adoration in your eyes, though,” she said, a soft chuckle bubbling from within her. “I remembered your eyes the most, the blue that was... is... as clear as a cloudless summer sky. I am not sure how I knew your name, but something in me told me that you did not truly mean me harm. In fact... I thought it was nice... to forget about everything else but the feel... of you... ”

He felt the blood surge in his cheeks, his face warm. He was not a man to blush, but so he did, at that moment. It was strange, he thought, that they had hardly spoken of that random (if not providential) encounter in the forest half a decade or so ago. There were so many questions of how that had happened, how that came to be, but if it were not for that, would Aymeric have had the strength to know her as he did now? Or would he too stay in awe of the figure, heedless to the needs of the woman beneath the title?

Do not dwell on the past, his mind said. Move forward.

Start anew.

Pale blue eyes gazed up at the stars for a moment. Such perfect wonder, magic all around them, even as vicious beasts lurked just beyond a hill. He felt the smile across his lips long after it appeared, only to look down to see his beloved Mariya gazing up at him with, at the moment, happiness and--dare he say it--the beginnings of what might be love.

Maybe, for a moment, he could help her forget, forget all the pain and suffering, of the unending conflict that swirled around her, ever pulling her to and fro.

“Would you like it,” he asked, his breath feeling somehow shallow, his tongue across his lips as their eyes met, “if I were to try to... help... tonight?”

Her gold eyes reflected the awe in his, the beauty of the Churning Mists. She touched a hand to his cheek, a touch cold from the wind, but warm enough to make him sigh. By her hand, he drifted towards her, his eyes closing as his lips found hers, gentle at first until she returned his kiss. In a moment, his need for her returned with such strength that he did not bother removing much of anything except that which would let him join with her, body and soul.

Pulling her legging from her hips, boots removed easily enough, he pressed a hand between her thighs, fingers dancing across soft and ever so wet flesh. She gasped just as he placed his mouth over hers again, determined as he was to give her whatever he could at this moment, whether it was joy and love or simply a moment to forget all that life had costed her. His teeth bit lightly on her earlobe between kisses down her cheek and neck, her body shuddering as she covered her sweet lips with her hand. In the corner of his pale blue eyes, he saw what he believed even the beautiful vistas of the Churning Mists could not compare to, his beloved gorgeous as she gave in, gave up control.

Aymeric shut his eyes, concentrating on the feel of her body pulsing around his fingers, digits sliding in and out of her as she arched her back, slick skin pressing and rubbing against her most sensitive places.

“By the Fury,” he whispered, hot, into her ear. “If I am an angel to you, then to me you are a goddess, Halone in flesh and blood...”

Their eyes met again, briefly, and Aymeric could not help but smile at Mariya, her eyelashes fluttering as she pouted at him, her arms around his neck as he slowed his touch, her lips just a touch swollen from his kisses. So lovely, so beautiful--he touched a hand to her cheek, kissing her hairline with reverence, whispers of how he loved her, how much he could never want anyone else, never wanted to be apart from her.

Her legs clasped around his waist, they joined again, he entering her a bit less gentle than he initially intended. She gasped loudly, muffled only by her hand over her mouth, their bodies beginning to rock against one another, Aymeric holding on to her hips as he moved inside her. She felt so good, so right to him, her sacred place holding him inside of her like no one ever had before or since he had met her, pleasure akin to (he thought) divine ecstasy, so immeasurable that he all but forgot that they were on the grass in a place held by dragons, nothing in his thoughts but this moment, of their bodies finding their rhythm together with such ease. Such perfection.

For once, he was a bit more grateful than usual for his decorated armor, the draping cloth hiding their joined bodies. And, in a way, it made him happy, as if she was but for him only, as if the sight of her so open and so vulnerable were for only him to see. Not that, he wanted to laugh, anyone wouldn’t be able to tell exactly what they were doing under the trappings of his armor.

She shuddered underneath him and, immediately, he forgot all about discretion or decency, her hips bucking to meet him as she pulled him down so that his very lips would stifle her cries of pleasure. Breathless, she pulled away, Aymeric touching his forehead to hers, his hands still on her hips as he helped her to meet his again and again and again. Time no longer mattered, not to Aymeric de Borel, not to the man who only had to reach out and touch all he had ever wanted in life.

With a hiss, he spilled his seed into her, deep into her, her body clasping around him like a vice as she held onto him tightly. He would have collapsed on her, if he had not remembered that he still wore most of his armor, rolling onto his back and pulling her with him, so that she may lay atop of him, her ear to his heart. Gazing at the sky, he smiled, pulling the blue and gold fabric around her again, holding her close, his lips to her hair. He could see the hints of a sunrise, making him laugh ever so softly.

For a moment, he felt as if he could fight any war--fight any demon or dragon or what-have-you--and succeed, newfound strength and conviction in the woman in his arms. Yes, he would give anything... anything for this very second to last forever, the feel of her against him, of the afterglow of making love, of knowing peace in his heart and hers.

“I love you,” she whispered. So unexpected was her voice that Aymeric blinked, Mariya seeming to drift in and out of consciousness. It was no wonder, he thought, considering how little time she had to rest. “I know I have not said it before... but I love you, Aymeric, son of Ishgard...”

“And I, you,” he replied, sighing with a joy he did not know he could feel. But he knew... He shut his eyes and, wrapping his arms ever tighter around his beloved, he whispered: “I know tomorrow shall continue the fighting, but for now, let me memorize this moment, so that I may remember all that I fight for, all that I believe in...”

With a dreamy gaze, she gave her characteristic nod, the sunrise reflected in her eyes. Aymeric smiled in return, cradling her in her arms, as they fell to slumber under the eyes of gods and dragons, a moment in the heavens.

Aymeric opened his pale blue eyes to a dim afternoon, blinking as he was faced with a pom-topped moogle and Alphinaud, both staring down at him with both curiosity and, perhaps, a bit of incredulousness. He went to stand, but found himself weighed down, looking down to see the great Warrior of Light sleeping with her ear to his chest, peaceful breaths in the shallow rise and fall of her chest. At his movement, she only snuggled deeper into him, wrapping the blue and gold cloth of his armor around her as the makeshift blanket they had used that night.

There was a slight twitch in Alphinaud’s brow and he turned his eyes away, a gloved hand to his lips.

“Well, then...” Alphinaud hummed, something between a laugh and a sigh escaping his lips.

Carefully, Aymeric tried to disengage from his beloved, but the sweet girl only held onto him fast.

“Ah...” Aymeric took in a breath. It was not shame that caused his hesitation. No, he felt... unprepared, which he almost never was. “Master Alphinaud...”

The younger Elezen turned to the man, waving a hand as a smile crept over his features, his long bangs covering what Aymeric thought was a reddening in his cheeks.

“No need to apologize, Ser Aymeric... I am... but surprised.” Alphinaud shrugged his shoulders and shook his head, his smile growing wider. “I am usually much more observant to... situations, but it seems I may have lost my touch. Given everything that has happened.”

The moogle, for his part (it was a he, wasn’t it? Named Moghan?), seemed to peer long at the two lovers, Aymeric trying to gather his thoughts as his mind shook off the fog of sleep. Part of him, though, laughed. He had somehow not considered that Alphinaud would be the last to be unaware of the relationship between Mariya, the Warrior of Light, and Aymeric, son of Ishgard, Lord Commander of the Temple Knights of Ishgard.

From the low rumble of his laugh, Mariya stirred and placed a hand to his chest, rising from his side. Aymeric wondered at the cold he felt as her touch left him, the spot so empty from where she had once been. A part of him wanted to pull her back to his side, that her being anywhere but right next to him was too far for his liking... But...

Mariya gazed at him, smiling with a nod.

Yes, there was work to do.

And so it was the last moment of peace before the battle of their lives, for those they had lost, for those they could yet save. Those were Mariya’s words, when she asked for Hraesvelgr’s help in saving their friend, tears a glimmer in her eyes as she begged for the great wyrm’s help in rescuing Estinien from the demon which raged within him. The surprise in Aymeric’s eyes were for the desperation in his lover’s words, her pleas to the dragon. If it were not for her earnestness, the hope in her eyes... Aymeric thought he might have felt jealousy. Did she ever, he wonder, speak of him that way, a stoic heroine breaking the facade for someone she so obviously cared for.

A roar in the skies signaled for their return to the battlefield, to Ishgard. Their hearts set, all three returned to Ishgard to fight, Mariya riding on the wings of Hraesvelgr, her mind set on the fight before her.

As Aymeric watched his beloved stride towards Nidhogg, the shade of the dragon in the flesh of their friend Estinien, he could see the determination in the gait of her walk, never looking back, her eyes always on the task before her. All of Ishgard watched the woman, the woman who would be their savior, face the great wyrm.

And it was like a dance, deadly but beautiful. There was no restraint on either side, Mariya wielding her lance and magicks with such skill it belied belief, Nidhogg just as ferocious in his attacks. Her gold eyes concentrated on the dread wyrm, she moved with a power he could only describe as gifted by the gods themselves. Truly, she was an avatar of Halone to Aymeric and, he supposed, many of the Ishgardian knights who watched her in that deadly battle.

That, of course, was not what had surprised him. It was the ferocity of Estinien’s resolve as he subdued Nidhogg’s shade within him when Nidhogg threatened Alphinaud and Mariya, the growl in his voice as he refused to allow the hateful being to cause harm to the two. Aymeric knew, without having to see his friend’s thoughts through a gift like the Echo, that Estinien had come to the surface, pushed down Nidhogg’s all-consuming anger and rage, for the sake of two who had broken through his walled-off heart.

The way Estinien begged Mariya to end his life--Aymeric knew it was not for Ishgard Estinien would sacrifice his life, but a boy that was like a brother and a woman who was perhaps more... an equal in battle and a friend far closer than Aymeric had ever been in all the years.

Still, Aymeric could only feel relief as Mariya and Alphinaud pulled the wyrm’s eyes from Estinien, amazed as his beloved still stood after the strength it took for the deed as Alphinaud had tripped from the force. But there was work to be done and he yelled to the two Scions to throw Nidhogg’s eyes to the dark abyss of the Sea of Clouds.

Standing vigil over Estinien once they had given him to the healers, Aymeric’s mind wandered in the quiet of the night and days after. Gazing at his friend, asleep but peaceful, he wondered what the man thought, what he felt. If Mariya, the Warrior of Light, was guarded, then Estinien was far worse, playing off fragility with rudeness and sardonic wit. But Aymeric knew his old friend was a kind soul in the end, these turns to the dark only due to the weakness named kindness.

Perhaps, in this way, Aymeric de Borel and Estinien Wyrmblood were more the same than not. After all, charm was but another shield against the blade of bitterness. Different shades of the same defense, he supposed. But...

Had Haurchefant been right?

When Mariya did not come to the ceremony to mark the end of the Dragonsong War, Aymeric felt a touch wounded. His eyes scoured over the crowd even as he spoke practiced words, hoping to see her gold eyes and warm smile in the sea of Ishgardian citizens. But, she wasn’t there. Just... gone.

When he was told that Mariya was seen with Tataru and Alphinaud at Haurchefant’s grave, Aymeric thought to visit the site... but stopped himself at the door to his office. In a heartbeat, he knew he did not deserve to be there, that he would but disturb the ones who would but remember a man too good for this world. With a hand on the dark wood, Aymeric shut his eyes, a prayer in his mind.

Yet, it was an apology that escaped his lips.

“How can I ever face you, my dear friend?” Aymeric whispered. “You whose spirit lives in her forever, while I am but a shade, locked up by obligations to countrymen rather than those who give me joy, to those who I am but a sad replacement for you?”

He sighed, pressing his forehead to the cold wood.

“Forgive me, Mariya, my love, my everything. It is too easy to fall to duty than to face a world unknown. The world has condemned me to be a coward, after all.”

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> I'm afraid this turned out to be more of the events seen thru Aymeric's point of view, with a little relationship building. But at least Aymeric is more of the dutiful pretty Ishgardian Elezen we all know and love, right?
> 
> Thank you so much for reading!


	5. The Time Between (Seconds)

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> Spoilers for the end of Heavensward, like always. Last chapter of this "part" of the series. Thank you for all the support and patience. Your comments and continued support have been the greatest for this silly writer. Much love to all of you!!!!

Aymeric had, in all intents and purposes, asked the Warrior of Light on a date. It was late, of course, his invitation, but the now Lord Speaker of the House of Lords had a rather sneaking suspicion that his beloved would not be in Ishgard for much longer. Standing at his window, languid motions of his wrist as he blew the ink dry on his “oh so simple” letter, he wondered about the time they had spent together, over the months she had been close.

The time they had shared was short, he knew. The Warrior of Light was a woman of battle and once one was over, the next would come right on its heels. Aymeric placed his forehead against the cold glass window, gazing out into the streets of the Pillars. In his mind, Estinien was standing behind him, giving him that particular “look” that bespoke his disappointment in the other Elezen, steel blue eyes silently judging the dark-haired Aymeric for his (lack of) action. For all his optimism and idealism, the Viscount of House Borel was admittedly a bit of a fool.

Days before, he had caught sight of her, the Warrior of Light, his Mariya, winding through the skies on the dreaded Midgardsormr on her way back from the Churning Mists. It had been twilight, the sun having just set over the horizon, and Aymeric had all but thrown all the proposals, reports, and letters off his desk as he made his way out of his home office. Even his head steward, an old gentleman who had served House Borel long before Aymeric had been adopted, stumbled at the speed with which Aymeric had departed his home.

He needed to see her. Wanted to speak to her. Just the two of them, even if it meant hiding in plain sight.

And there she was, hair windswept, bidding Midgardsormr a small farewell before turning...

When her golden eyes met his, his pale sky blue, her eyebrows rose in surprise. And yet, a smile crept across her lips, widening to something very warm and kind. He didn’t deserve it, he thought, but it lifted all the worries in his heart, the relief he had needed but did not know easing the tension in every muscle in his body. Aymeric knew, very much, that he loved her... but he also desperately needed her; not just physically, but in love and... forgiveness.

She was the Saviour of Ishgard... and a personal messiah to the Lord Commander of the Temple Knights.

Mariya stood there, smiling at him, and Aymeric closed the space between them. Heeding the all-watching eyes of Ishgardian nobility, he stood far enough to at least pretend at a more respectable relationship, even as he yearned to just sweep her into his arms and place a thousand kisses on her cheeks, brows, lips. Gravity pulled him towards her, but he kept his distance... just watching her as she made a few more steps.

“Ser Aymeric,” she stated, her smile reaching her eyes, an image he had not seen for what felt like weeks. “What are you doing here?”

He noticed her hair had grown a touch. No longer did it fall just to her chin, it now was just past her shoulders. How time flies, Aymeric noted in silence.

Aymeric folded his arms, if only to keep himself from reaching for her, to run his fingers through her hair again, to feel her skin against his...

“... Welcome home, Mariya,” he stated after airing an excuse for his greeting, his voice soft. There was a long pause, eyes gazing at each other. If only, he thought, he could... 

Though he had not intended to broach the subject, Aymeric told her of his new duties, as the Speaker of the House of Lords, of the permanence of the position. By the way her smile receded, just a touch, he knew she understood his hidden meaning... of what it meant. Never in his life had Aymeric thought it would be him, confronted with choosing the girl of his dreams, that would tell the other of their imminent parting.

As if to lessen the blow, he ended his short diatribe with news of Estinien’s “escape” from the infirmary. If nothing else, at least she smiled at that. Like two sides of a coin, Estinien had always been Aymeric’s opposite and yet always in a way that Aymeric had... envied.

“... Thank you, Mariya. And please, convey my warmest regards to Master Alphinaud.”

He turned, even as it hurt his very soul, and began to walk away. Back into what he knew, back into a city, a nation, that needed his undivided attention.

And then, a hand on his cloak stopped him, a firm grasp on the gilded cloth.

“Wait,” came Mariya’s voice, barely above a whisper. “Is that it, then...? Is this how you mean to say goodbye...?”

He looked over his shoulder, his eyes widening at the sound of her voice. The ever-stoic Warrior of Light was not the one who stood behind him, but the woman named Mariya, the one who had pleaded with Hraesvelgr for her beloved friend, the one who had held the hand of a man who loved her as he gave his last breaths just for her. This fragile and all too mortal woman that Aymeric had known for most of a decade. A woman he...

“Mariya...”

“Don’t go,” she said between heavy breaths and Aymeric could already see the tears forming at the corners of her eyes, even before he looked. “Please.”

He turned around fully and took her hand in his, the hand that had made him pause. With a soft touch, he kissed the back of her hand, the battle-roughened knuckles still soft against his lips.

“You will always have my heart... and, in this city, a warm home to return to. Ishgard will never be closed to you and never will we forget what you have done.” He sighed, pressing his forehead to her cold fingers as he knelt before her in much the same way he had taken his vows as a knight. For the moment, he did not care for the whispers of Ishgard’s elite class. “I cannot accompany you on your journeys, but I hope you will continue to hold me in your heart as I will always hold you. I pray that the Fury will watch over you and return you to me when time and peace allows.”

When he looked up to her, Mariya stared down at him, stray tears as streaks down her cheeks, but with a softness in her eyes. She knew, just as much as he did, that this was perhaps as much as they could have hoped for. As much as could be given, considering the duties of the Defender of Eorzea and the man who would lead Ishgard into its uncertain future. He stood again, and pressed the palm of her hand, gloved as it was, against his heart.

“I love you,” he said, words soft enough (he hoped) that only she could hear. “I love you more than anything. But...”

“But you made a promise,” she said, finishing his sentence with a warm and gentle (and so very sad) smile. “As I did.”

“Yes.” He shut his eyes. “Such is the nature of man. Such is the needs of people who rely on us.”

She wrapped his hands between two of her own, the touch warming and gentle in the cold of Ishgard’s nights. Aymeric stood then, placing his free hand over hers to complete the connection. Part of him wondered if perhaps, one day, the two of them might run away... if only for a day and a night, maybe hole up in Dravania with nothing more but love and a freedom to touch and feel.

“‘Tis not enough,” he began, his voice quiet. “To just love, is it? Gods know how hard it was for me when I knew not if you were a figment of my imagination. I can only imagine what your hardships are like. The world so very heavy on your small shoulders... moving always from one battlefield to the next...”

She shook her head and the soft way her hair swayed against her cheeks made Aymeric look on with wonder. She was, without a doubt, more beautiful a creature than he had ever seen in all his years. Mariya looked up to him and took one more step, so that their eyes were clear to each other.

“It would be...” She sighed, glancing around the airship dock, as if trying to assure their privacy (which was, undoubtedly, already broken). “It would mean a great deal to me, if... If you would promise me... that when I could... I could come here. See the only semblance of a family I have left and... to see you.”

The stars were bright in her gold eyes, the earnestness in them like the welcome rays of sunshine on a cold morning.

“Always,” he replied without hesitation. “I’ll always have a place here for you. I’ll wait forever if need be. Whether it be in this life or in the Halls of Halone, I will wait for you.”

Without noticing, the lovers had come close to one another, their hands wound together and their breaths only ilms apart, Aymeric naturally bending his tall Elezen frame towards the petite Hyuran who stood on her toes, her head tipped back slightly. He smiled with all the affection and adoration he knew he held within him, abandoning his pride and his manners, no longer giving much of a damn if his love for the Warrior of Light was but the worst kept secret in all of Eorzea. And, by the Grace of Halone, she smiled back, the same feelings expressed in the light in her eyes and the beautiful bow of her lips.

He wanted to kiss her. He wanted just one last moment before she was gone from Ishgard, gone from where he could so easily see her, if just by happy circumstance through the glass of his manor’s windows. He wanted so much... In his heart, he knew what he wanted, what he hoped for above all else.

“I wish you could stay,” he stated, finally, his voice heavy. He felt tears stinging at the back of his eyes, but he was too proud (at least) for that. Yet, he refused to play the part of politician and keeper of peace. Not now. And so, he pulled her to him, holding her tightly to him, breathing in the smell of sunshine and the winds in her hair. “I wish I could go with you on your journeys. I wish... I wish for so much, my love. I never want to be apart from you... but I am a coward. I am a coward to the needs of others... and yet, here I am, hurting you with my selfishness. I am a sorry fool and I hate myself more than you know. I do not know why you love me, for all that I have done and all that I do to you.”

Her arms slipped under the cloak of his armor, wrapping around his torso as much as they could.

“Because you see me as me,” Mariya replied, voice so soft it was barely above a whisper. “You know I was once someone who knew not of the gods nor dragons nor anything else. I do, Aymeric, I do want to stay. I want to stay so much that it hurts. But I can’t and if I don’t go, how can I know that there would be a home here... with you... to return to?”

She sighed and by the shudder in her body, Aymeric knew she had begun to cry. He pulled the fabric around his armor around her, trying to shield her from the eyes of those who might judge her for her weakness. Oh, he could feel a touch of rage, that she could not just be the girl he knew she was, the woman who felt fear and sorrow, but also joy and love. Why Halone, he prayed, did the Twelve see it so fit to bring them together, only to pull them apart again? To drive him mad with her memory, to give him a taste for the addiction of love, and then take it away all the same?

“Godsdammit,” he whispered, gruff. “This is not fair. This is not fair to you or to me.”

A touch on his arm and all the anger flitted away just as easy as it had come, her lips against his fingertips.

“We can’t dwell on what we can’t change,” she sighed. “I know that there will be more for me to do once I go back to Fortemps Manor, but... for a moment... can you give me just one small thing?”

He looked down to her, even as she spoke into his palm, his skin unbearably warm even in the frigid night air. Her eyes were half-closed, thoughtful; her hands touching him with such softness, such gentle heat. He felt himself take in a deep breath, a subconscious need to calm his nerves. He was so pathetic, Aymeric laughed inwardly, in so much that this pretty and petite Hyuran was his greatest weakness.

“Anything for you, my love,” he replied, allowing himself to nuzzle into her hair.

“Then take me home.” The tenor of her voice was calm, assured. “Take me to your house and let me know the home I should have from now on... Let me spend this night with the man I love.”

“Of course,” he felt the urge to bow politely, but only smiled into her hair and skin, the amusement over it alleviating much of his guilt and suffering. A turn of his wrist and he reversed the touch, his hand now holding hers, before he led her up towards the Athenaeum Astrologicum, passing that towards the smaller of the homes of the High Houses. It was late enough, he told himself, that there certainly had to be less nosey nobles about. But her hand in his, she squeezing his grip just a touch, reminded him of her presence, that it was still his turn to give her what he could, even if it was (of course) not quite enough.

Entering into Borel Manor, so much smaller in comparison to the “major” high houses, Aymeric pulled his lover in before him, his back to the door as he shut it. She made a little twirl and he found himself fascinated all over again, seeing her as he did every time, as if she were new and yet everything he already knew he held dear. Every motion, every look, ever gesture, the very color of her eyes that haunted him already--he wanted to memorize it all over again, knowing this time might be the very last they could share, alone and as one.

Taking her hand again, he guided her across the foyer, putting all the gallant and charm in his step as he did for all those social events he had ever forced himself into to get to the position of Lord Commander. But this fair maiden, he knew, was not some socialite or debutante who admired his handsome features (nor his eligibility as a bachelor of a High House), but a woman who knew him through and through. He smiled at her, his Mariya, the girl they called the Warrior of Light, and she greeted him with a warmth that melted all his worries away.

There was a certain pleasure in leading the woman into a dance, this girl entrusted with the power of gods, slayer of lesser gods. Without a word, they fell into the motions of a certain type of waltz popular in Ishgard, not just embracing but with twirling and cross-steps. It didn’t really matter what sort of dance it was, as the lovers moved out of instinct, anticipating each other’s movements and reacting as if dancing was but another form of battle. But there was no animosity in this fight, only lingering touches and long glances. When Mariya, Aymeric’s Mariya, giggled as he twirled her a final time, he felt his heart leap into his throat, the sound more beautiful than any music that had ever reached his ears.

“By the Fury,” Aymeric breathed, “you are more beautiful than even the glorious vistas of the Churning Mists.”

She laughed, placing her hands together in her joy.

“You are such a flatterer, Ser Aymeric de Borel,” she teased. “I’m sure all the eligible maidens in the High Houses would be so happy to be your wife.”

He huffed, glancing at the tones of blue on the wallpaper, the blood rushing to his cheeks.

“And, what of you, Miss Mariya Lugria?” He retorted, feigning indignation. “Certainly many a man has proclaimed your name with wonder, have they not?”

Her eyes softened a touch, a hand over her heart.

“Not like you have,” she said, more of a sigh than spoken words. “No one will ever be like you.”

Aymeric paused, his pale blue eyes watching the woman steadily. Never in his life had he felt so fulfilled... and yet, so undeserving. For all his ambition and hope, he had never felt so humble before another, never felt that he did not deserve whatever he sought. Even his father, he had known he deserved to be treated as a son, had fought his way through the Temple Knights because he knew he could prove his worth, because he was worthy... But, why, in this instance, did he feel so... not?

And so, in his heart, he swore he would do whatever it took to prove to both himself and to her that he was, indeed, worthy of this wonderful woman’s love, whose heart gave so much to everyone, who never thought to think of reward or recognition just to do her part on this star. And he would start with this night, fulfill this oh so small request which meant more than any amount of gil or title that could ever be given.

He approached her, then, these thoughts in his mind, his hands reaching for the sides of her face, his fingers brushing through her feathersoft raven hair, skin as soft as the lightest clouds. Gazing into her gold-colored eyes, he decided to keep honeyed words to himself, to let her senses discern and convey his affections, his dreams, his devotion. Bending down, he took her lips with his, her lips parting easily as his tongue darted forth for another dance, another struggle.

Their kiss lasted several moments, so long that Aymeric was not even sure of how much time had passed, only seeing the moon high in the sky, both of them breathing as heavy as one might when coming above water for air. Mariya, the precious girl, held onto him fast, melting into him with a pleasant hum. He held her close again, breathing her in, before the brush of his lips against her hair made him press his lips across her temple, a touch above her brows, one to the corner of each eye, her cheeks, the tip of her dainty nose (which made her giggle, much to his own happiness), and then a soft touch to her lips. She sighed, a pleasant sound, before wrapping her arms around his neck, just as Aymeric lifted her from her feet.

He carried her in the quiet, just holding her close as she nuzzled softly into him. What a difference, he wondered, on their first meetings to where they were now. Perhaps he was not as terrible a man as he thought he was... Or maybe he had wanted redemption all along, for everything--from being a bastard son, a boy who other children mocked, a soldier who pushed himself too hard, to a man who had been consumed by two unending goals: the future of his home and people... and to have his dream lover. And yet, a man of principle, Aymeric knew he had to choose and both lovers knew, in the end, what his choice would be, had been since time immemorial.

Aymeric stood in bedchambers, looking around the room before his eyes settled on the woman in his arms. If he did not know any better, he almost considered that perhaps Mariya was exhausted. Though he knew she was, from life in general, her eyes as they gazed up at him, need and hope in them, told him she wished only for him. Always that look of wonder, the gaze so steady but never with fear.

Instead of dropping her on his bed, as he might have done (and did) before, Aymeric settled Mariya back on her feet. When she looked up to him, he reached his hand to her cheek, his fingers just below her earlobe, the thumb brushing against her cheek. With one small, slow stroke, he conveyed every thought and feeling he had for the one they called the Warrior of Light.

But to him, to Aymeric,she would always be just ‘Mariya’.

In the span of seconds, their lifetimes played before them, for each other.

Aymeric, the bastard son, an orphan whose mother had passed too soon, adopted by an elder Viscount who treated him far better than he thought possible, who bequeathed him a title, a name, and a family. This boy who would grow older, who would for the sake of the family who showed him kindness when no one did before, try to earn the name they had given him, the sword he carried, joining the Temple Knights as early an age as he could. A young man who saw a kindred spirit in a lone lancer, a dragoon who would become the deadliest of all dragoons, whose taciturn ways hid a pain that Aymeric could understand, even if it (Aymeric was sure) was more than he could truly understand

Aymeric, the man who would become Lord Commander, who saw an opportunity in a Garlean spy turned to a close friend, who gave everything into finding a way to right the wrongs of his people.

A man who had but a moment of weakness which would lead him to a punishment he had not ever considered before. A love he could hardly understand and drove him to near insanity, if not for his devotion to Ishgard and her people. A woman who slipped from his fingers not for what she did, but because he did not hold on tighter.

Mariya, the Warrior of Light, who was but a Hyuran girl, an orphan like Aymeric, raised on the field of battle as a member of Ilsabard’s resistance against Garlemald. A girl who... withheld her history and thoughts, the memory of the lost too much to bear to speak freely of her homeland. A young woman who had come to Eorzea to assist others, but gifted with strengths divine. A young woman who felt loneliness to the most bitter of degrees.

A woman who saw the same loneliness and despair in a fellow dragoon, whom she fought against and alongside, equal in battle and in spirit. A woman who saw two lost twins, who had lofty goals, but knew not what bitter hurt lay before them. A woman who others sacrificed themselves for, time and time again, though that only gave way to more pain, more burdens.

A woman who came face to face with a dream, a dream lover who wanted nothing from her but her, in the physical and the spiritual.

The slow growth of romance.

What had started as lust (at least, for Aymeric) came a slow dance of two souls. Admiration in each other for small kindness, hope in each other, each bearing a shoulder for the other to rely on. A smile here, a word of kindness there, unspoken praise in the gentleness in their gazes. Aymeric slowly losing his guard around Mariya, without truly realizing it, just as she opened up her thoughts to him. Each whispering prayers for the safety of the other.

The look of horror on Mariya’s face, the stoic mask slipping again, when her and Alphinaud were told the attempt on Aymeric’s life.

The absolute fear in Aymeric’s heart when he heard that Mariya had been attacked by his own people to keep the “savior” from stopping their protests.

The joy in Mariya’s gaze as she watched Aymeric lay his eyes on the true beauty of the Churning Mists, his amazement at such a simple thing so dear to her.

The relief and full gladness in Aymeric’s soul as he saw Mariya still standing after freeing their friend from the dread wyrm, Nidhogg. The encroaching bitterness that he had not fought by her side against the dragon.

The flutter in Mariya’s heart as Aymeric simply spoke the words: “welcome home”.

The pain of parting.

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> OH MY GAWD. I thought I had uploaded this last chapter A YEAR AGO and now I realize I hadn't. I am so sorry to anyone who was following this little fic, but I hope this comes as a welcome surprise! 2018 was a crazy ass year for me, so I had dropped off the face of the planet. Many thanks for everyone who has read and commented and given kudos! It warms my heart to see that there are those who have enjoyed my writing. 
> 
> I AM working again on this "series" (it was always supposed to be), so whoever has waited, I so appreciate your patience even as its been strained so very badly. I promise, this isn't the end of the story of Aymeric and the WOL!

**Author's Note:**

> Thanks for indulging me in this chapter... I had originally written this as a strange one-off, but I couldn't help but continue... and I had just gone through about all of Heavensward and was dying for more Aymeric in my life. (I mean, come on, who doesn't want more Aymeric in their life??) I wish there was so much more of him in Stormblood. *openly weeps*
> 
> It's been a while since I've shared fanfiction at all, so I hope it's alright! Thank you in advance for any comments/suggestions/etc. you'd like to leave. I apologize also if I have a weird writing style. I've been known to take "creative liberties" in my way of writing.
> 
> Thank you again!


End file.


> Hello and welcome to my new object of hyperfocus! I typically write very positive, healthy relationships, so I wanted to try my hand at writing the opposite. This story begins prior to the events of patch 2.0 and will carry us through the plot up to the end of 4.0 from a... unique perspective. I will be depicting a specific Warrior of Light, as this story is based on an AU of the backstory I created for him. If you are interested in a reference for him, this is him [here](https://twitter.com/ImagineJacksons/status/964623088938835968). While he is underage at the beginning of the story, there will be no sex between him and other characters until he is older. However, there are references to him experiencing verbal sexual harassment while underage. This story will also be dealing with a lot of mature themes, so I'll post warnings at the beginning of chapters. 
> 
> Now with art by me!
> 
> Special thanks to joyejoyu for being my sounding board and providing boundless support and enthusiasm for my filth. <3

__

 

 _Even the sea smells different here_ , Miah’to thought as he gazed out at the Othard shore, towering islands of volcanic rock rising from the ocean floor. When the Captain told him that they were setting sail for the Far East, Miah’to had anticipated new sights and smells, but he hadn’t expected the sea itself to change. It seemed so foolish in hindsight, to think that that familiar sea salt smell would remain consistent even in foreign lands. It was the marine life, he realized; different creatures occupied these waters, altering its scent in different ways as they lived and died and decayed.

When he was a child, Miah’to would sit with his mother on the western pier in Limsa Lominsa, and as day turned to night they would watch together as the sun dipped beneath the waves, transmuting water into gold, and then ink. Miah’to knew what lied to the east of Vylbrand, across the Strait of Merlthor; travelers and merchants from all over Eorzea made stops in Limsa in search of work and trade. But as they looked to the west, he sometimes asked his mother what waited beyond the horizon, and she would tell him about distant lands and people, all unique and all beautiful in their own way. He told her that when he grew up he wanted to see it all, and he would bring her with him. She would smile at him then, lavender eyes he wasn’t fortunate enough to inherit full of warmth, and tell him that she couldn’t wait.

Seeing those lands now, Miah’to found that there was little joy to be had in the experience. A pirate vessel was not his intended mode of transportation, nor had he planned on making his journey until he was old enough to pay his way onto a merchant’s ship—or sail one himself. For the thousandth time, Miah’to felt a pang of homesickness, a dull throbbing behind his ribs that gnawed like a hunger he could not fill. Last week had marked the two year anniversary since he was taken, and a month before that, his sixteenth name day came and went without remark. The Captain didn’t care to know more than his year of birth, and that information he knew intimately well—after all, he had participated in his conception.

The sound of laughter made Miah’to cringe and look over his shoulder. Between Othard and the island nation of Koshu, the Ruby Sea was held by a fleet who called themselves the Confederacy. To the members of this fleet, any ship that wished to travel between Othard and Koshu must pay the Ruby tithe to guarantee its safety.

 _Pirates everywhere are the same_ , Miah’to thought as he watched the Captain chat amicably with a Hyur man whose dark hair was pulled back into a braid. There were a lot of Hyur in the Far East, as well as a number of Hellsguard and a race of horned beings Miah’to had never encountered before—though even the familiar races looked different here in comparison to their Eorzean counterparts.

Miah’to was jolted from his thoughts by a hand striking the back of his head with an open palm.

“Quit your staring!” hissed his assailant: a Sun Seeker named A’linh, and the crew’s first-mate. “The last thing the Captain needs right now is for you to fuck up negotiations by making our gracious hosts feel uncomfortable.”

Miah’to shot him a scowl and replied, “You say that like you think I give a damn about his needs.”

A’linh raised his hand like he was going to hit Miah’to a second time, but then he curled his fingers into his palm and jerked his thumb at the Confederate pirates behind him. “If you’re thinking about throwing your lot in with this bunch, be my guest. You’re pretty, and some of them may have never even _seen_ a Miqo’te before. I’m sure they’d have far better uses for your mouth than I do.”

Miah’to’s teeth snapped together with an audible click and he met A’linh’s amber gaze with a glare. When they weren’t discussing the Captain or doling out instructions (or, as was often the case, punishment), it seemed the crew could talk to him about precious little aside from how _pretty_ he was. It was why A’linh was the only member who the Captain trusted to leave alone with Miah’to for any length of time.

“Having difficulties over there, A’linh?” came _his_ voice.

Miah’to stiffened and raised his chin to look toward the source instinctively, finding a pair of silver eyes staring back at him impassively, like twin daggers trapped in ice. Cold and razor sharp. A shiver ran down his spine and Miah’to gritted his teeth harder together. His mother always used to say Miah’to had beautiful eyes; having found their origin, he no longer agreed. He hated every little reminder that his blood ran in Miah’to’s veins—that long, straight nose and bushy tail. Pale skin now tanned from too long spent beneath the sun on the open sea.

“None at all, Cap,” said the Sun Seeker. “Everything’s been sorted.”

“Good,” he replied. “Then I want you to get your axes and run him through drills.”

A’linh groaned with exasperation, but he offered no resistance as he curled a hand around Miah’to’s arm—tightly, despite his previous words to the Moon Keeper—and began to lead him back to the ship.

Behind them, the Confederate Hyur said to the Captain, “You are bringing your boy with you?”

“No, but we _are_ in Garlean territory. One must be prepared for anything.”

 

 

For twenty-two years, Doma had been under the heel of the Garlean Empire. For a time, little changed across the countryside save for its leadership, but since Doma’s leash had been relinquished to a new Viceroy, her people found themselves guided by a far less forgiving hand. It left them weak and vulnerable—easy pickings, the Captain said with a smirk that made Miah’to’s blood boil. He wanted to take his dinner knife and cut the grin from his lips.

But he was right. Twice, they raided villages along the shore of the Ruby Sea, and Miah’to was left on the ship with A’linh to await their return. To watch them climb back aboard with bloodied armour and stolen bounty. The day after the second raid, the Captain declared that they would take a third village, and Miah’to clenched his fists, knowing that he had reached his limit. Tomorrow, he would challenge his father to a duel or pitch himself overboard—entrust his life to the sea before suffering another day of complicity.

He never got the chance.

Later, he wasn’t sure if it was the cannon fire or the Captain scrambling from his bed that woke him. All he knew was that within seconds of blinking awake, a rough hand was curling around his bicep and yanking him from his cot in their shared quarters. At first Miah’to simply wobbled on his feet, sleepy and confused, but as the second volley of cannon fire rocked the ship, he snapped to attention. The Captain hissed a string of curses as he tugged on his boots and armoured overcoat, forgoing a light—as Keepers of the Moon, neither he nor Miah’to had any need for one. Miah’to followed his lead and began to dress himself as his heart took up a staccato rhythm, like a bird’s wings beating against the bars of its cage. Breaths coming faster as his body prepared itself for fight or flight.

It was around that time when the screams began.

In the books Miah’to’s mother read to him as a child, the battles were long and drawn out. Even though he knew the heroes would come out victorious in the end, there was suspense and a clear power struggle between the combatants. Reality was never so fair. Armed with a strategically sound plan, most battles were swift and decisive. It mattered not who was more righteous—only whose tactician was smarter.

The Captain had barely taken his great-axe in his hands before the door burst open to admit a panting and bloodied A’linh, the blond hair at his temples dampened with sweat.

“It’s an ambush, Captain!” A’linh cried. “The Garleans have—” He was cut off with a wet gasp as a sword pierced through his mid-section like a skewered fruit. Time came to a standstill as wide eyes fell to the steel tip peering through his tattered shirt, red blooming down its front like an opening rose. The moment passed as he slid off of the blade, falling to the wooden floor in a heap. The blood came quickly now that the wound was no longer stoppered and Miah’to could only stare dumbly at the spreading lake of crimson. How many times had those hands, now lax, taken the lash to him? He should have known, because he had been ordered to count each one, but now the number escaped him as he thought, _I’ll never feel the sting of his whip again_.

His mind went blank as the swordsman stepped through the doorway and over A’linh’s corpse. Between his towering height and the elaborate armour that adorned his body, he utterly filled the room—but more than that he seemed to leech the very warmth from the air. If there was such a thing as an angel of death, Miah’to thought, this is how he would appear: with a horned white mask and lifeless eyes as he held his bloodied blade in a loose grasp, golden hair cascading down broad shoulders.

The Captain positioned himself between Miah’to and that lethal angel, gripping his axe with white knuckles. “Miah’to, _run!_ ” he shouted, panic lacing his voice.

Miah’to drew in a sharp breath, tasting salt and iron, but instead of darting for the porthole window over the head of the Captain’s bed, he reached beneath the pillow for the dagger he knew resided there and drew it from its sheath. The Captain and his accoster hadn’t moved when Miah’to turned back to them, and he found himself freezing with indecision. Suddenly, he wasn’t sure whether he should aid in fending off the Garlean giant or plunge the knife into the Captain’s back. His heart pounded, the bird behind his ribs frantic with its proximity to freedom.

The decision was taken out of his hands when the Captain lunged forward with a wordless yell. The Garlean parried the blade effortlessly, like he was sparring with a child, and as the Captain was forced off-balance by the strength with which he was met, the angel of death swung his sword around in a graceful arc. A shower of rubies spilled from the blade’s edge and Miah’to flinched as something warm and wet splattered across his face. A broken cry was wrenched from the Captain’s mouth and the axe slipped from his hands as he fell to his hands and knees. The breath retreated from his lungs with a shuddering sigh, and Miah’to could have sworn for a moment that he heard his own name. The Garlean turned his sword downward and drove it through the Captain’s back, pinning him to the floor.

 _He’s dead_ , Miah’to thought, repeating over and over like a mantra. For two long years he had dreamed of this day, though in his fantasies it was he who had made the killing stroke. _He’s dead_. Face-down as his blood joined the pool surrounding A’linh. His head was spinning, unable to come to terms with the reality he was seeing.

Slowly, the pale mask of the Garlean’s helm lifted to meet Miah’to’s gaze and he remembered that he was not alone. His hands tightened around the dagger, hard leather digging into his palms, but as he stared into those blackened eyes he found that he couldn’t move. The cage door had swung open before him to reveal a coeurl, and he had no intentions of charging to his doom. The Garlean spoke then with a low and sultry voice.

“Why do you hesitate?” he asked.

A drip rolled down Miah’to’s face and he licked his lips, tasting blood. “Because… I am not sure whether I should attack you or _thank_ you,” he said.

The Garlean cocked his head. “An interesting response.”

Miah’to glared back at him. “Should I love my own captors? You have done me a service—if you permit me to live.”

“And if I do not?”

Miah’to widened his stance and bared his teeth. “Then I will fight until I draw my last breath… or _you_ do.”

The angel regarded him for a long minute and Miah’to realized, during that silence, that the screaming had ceased along with the cannon fire. The assault had come to an end and there was no questioning who reigned triumphant. After all, who could defeat death? His Garlean angel surprised him by turning his back to him to exit the room.

Just past the doorway he paused, and Miah’to knew that his words were meant for him. “Take what you please and come.”

It was all Miah’to needed to jolt him into action. He dropped the dagger and scrambled for a rucksack, filling it with his meagre supply of clothing and gil from the Captain’s chest. When he finished with his task he stood, eyes searching the room for… _something_. Even he was uncertain what it was he sought as his gaze passed over his dishevelled cot and the Captain’s unmade bed, now flecked with blood. Then he spied the oil lamp on the Captain’s desk and something inside of him said, _yes_ , and he _knew_. Miah’to crossed the room to take the lamp in his hands, and then he brought down the oil reservoir against the corner of the desk with a resounding crack, feeling the glass give way. He dribbled fuel across the floor and over the beds, splashing the walls as best he could, and then let it fall to the floor with a crystalline crunch. He wiped his trembling fingers on his shirt and returned to the desk to find the Captain’s flint and a map to use as kindling. Three times he fumbled with the fire starter until sparks finally caught on the parchment. With a racing heart, Miah’to brought the burning map to the Captain’s bed and dropped it onto oil-soaked sheets. Flames sprung to life across the bed hungrily and began to clamber their way up the wall.

 _Let it all burn_ , Miah’to thought. Turn it all to ash and leave nothing behind.

Satisfied, he made his way to the door, stopping only as he reached the Captain’s body. Motionless, now and forever. Miah’to knelt down and turned him onto his back. His eyes were closed and his face was slack, parted lips that would never smirk again revealing sharp, feline teeth. Hair a few shades darker than Miah’to’s plastered to his forehead with blood. For two years Miah’to had lived with this man. Fought him and despised him even as he learned from him. For two years, Miah’to had yearned for the mother he was ripped away from, for his home in Limsa Lominsa where they would watch the sunset side by side. He wondered, not for the first time, how a woman as kind and compassionate as his mother could have loved this man for an evening, and his answer came in the unbidden memory of his name whispered on a dying breath.

How insurmountable he had once seemed. He was small for a Miqo’te, barely taller than Miah’to, and yet he had felt larger than life as he put Miah’to down again and again and again. Swatting him aside as easily as he would a fly. As easily as the Garlean angel swatted _him_.

Steeling his resolve, Miah’to found the great-axe at his side and hoisted it into his hands as he rose to his feet. He stepped over A’linh and found his angel waiting outside the door. The angel spared him only a brief glance before making his way out of the cabin. Miah’to followed.

If the Garleans were surprised to see a young Miqo’te trailing willingly behind the giant through the carnage, they did not show it, nor did they move to disarm him. It was clear that his angel was their leader and his will would not be defied. The smell of wood smoke mingled with blood and gunpowder as they reached the gangplank and crossed over onto the Garlean ship, joined by the last few soldiers who had remained on deck to await their superior’s orders. When the final soldier finished crossing, they drew back the gangplank and the Garlean ship drifted away from the smouldering carcass of its prey. His angel stood at the railing and Miah’to joined him, surveying the remains of the pirate vessel that had housed him for the last two years.

It was once a grand ship with a chestnut brown hull and massive, midnight blue sails, an ornate figurehead of a Sahagin warrior carved beneath the jutting bowsprit. Now smoke billowed from the cabin window as Miah’to’s fire consumed it from the inside out, and the masts were collapsed like broken twigs, shredding the blue-dyed fabric. Very slowly, the ship was sinking as water poured into the holes that had been punched through its hull with cannonballs. It wasn’t enough. Miah’to’s hands became fists around the handle of the Captain’s great-axe.

A soldier approached his angel and said, “No survivors remaining onboard save for your… hostage. In addition to eliminating the outlaws, we have also confiscated all plundered goods below deck. Your orders, my lord?”

Miah’to ignored him, glaring at the wreckage. He was not expecting a gauntleted hand to cup his jaw, a thumb covered in warmed metal running through the drying blood on his cheek. His Garlean angel. He did not look away. He did not falter.

His angel said, “Leave naught but splinters.”

“Yes, my lord. At once.”

Miah’to would never forget the sound as the cannons resumed fire. The hissing of the fuse followed by the low thrum as black powder combusted within the chamber. The deafening crash as the cannonballs collided with the hull and tore it apart, wood wailing in protest. Beating it into submission and then dismembering the ravaged corpse. Leaving ruin where once his prison stood.

Something fluttered in Miah’to’s chest and he found himself grinning, giddy, and then he was laughing. _He was free_. The bird escaped through his open mouth, caged no more, and he laughed even harder until tears began to stream down his face. _He was free, he was free, he was free._


	2. Curiosity and the Coeurl

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> The risks Miah'to took were calculated but, man, is he bad at math.

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> I am utterly thrilled at the reception this story has garnered so far! Thank you all so much for your interest! Warnings for this chapter include some sexual situations (though again, no sex) and implied offscreen animal death. Enjoy!!

His angel’s personal quarters were far grander than the Captain’s. Illuminated by magitek lighting, a four-poster bed with scarlet sheets was pushed against the far wall and a large, empty wardrobe stood open next to it—ostensibly to store his armour in, as there was a second dresser positioned on the bed’s other side. Unlike the Captain’s, his desk was immaculate and the chair in front of it was padded with plush leather. The cabin was large, even for its giant occupant as he strode into the room without a backwards glance. It was a status symbol as inimitable as a crown. Miah’to followed him into the room without question or comment, and as one of the two soldiers standing guard outside the entrance made to join them, the angel turned his deathly mask on him and bade him to beat a hasty retreat. Even among his own men, his Garlean angel inspired fear, Miah’to thought with a shiver. The door closed behind them, and they were left alone in silence.

Pretending to pay his angel no mind, Miah’to walked along the perimeter of the room with slow, lazy steps toward the desk, where he propped his great-axe against the wall and dropped his rucksack. He climbed into the chair in front of it, leaning back languidly as his feet dangled above the floor, and trailed absent fingertips across the wooden surface. A splinter nearly made its way beneath the pad of his index finger before he carefully redirected its motion.

Finally, he looked up at the Garlean and his breath caught as he watched his angel remove his helm. Despite his staggering height, the man couldn’t have been even a decade older than Miah’to, his unlined face fair and hauntingly beautiful. Above bow-shaped lips and an aquiline nose, his Garlean third eye was a milky white sphere embedded in the centre of his forehead like a pearl. And when eyes framed with long, dark lashes opened to meet his with irises as pale and blue as the endless sky, Miah’to found himself entranced.

Without his mask to muffle it, his voice was rich and smooth.

“You are a long way from home, Eorzean.”

“I should like to know the name of my rescuer,” Miah’to said, ignoring the implied question in his words.

The corner of his angel’s mouth twitched. “I am Zenos yae Galvus, Imperial Viceroy, Legatus of the XIIth Legion, and crown prince of Garlemald.”

How fitting, Miah’to thought, that his angel should be a prince. “I am Miah’to Nikos, general nuisance and prince of no one.”

An amused smirk spread across Zenos’ lips and Miah’to felt a rush of pride for giving rise to it. Then his angel raised his hands to find the buckles on his armour, and Miah’to’s mouth went dry as he began to remove it piece by piece, stripping away metal alloy to reveal woven fabric underneath. He spoke as he worked. “And what brings an Eorzean prince of no one to the Ruby Sea?”

“Hubris and greed,” Miah’to replied. “Not my own.”

A hum that may have been a laugh. “A fitting end then.” The final plate of his sabatons hit the floor with a metallic clang and then he peeled the gloves from his hands, baring long fingers and sharp knuckles. Without the bulk of his armour, his steps were astonishingly quiet as he made his way toward Miah’to, powerful muscle moving beneath his clothing. Miah’to was under no illusion that the lack of armour made him any more vulnerable. In fact, he was positive that Zenos had taken it off for the selfsame reason that he allowed Miah’to to carry his great-axe into his personal quarters without a guard: to show that any threat the Miqo’te posed was insignificant to him. It was a display of power.

Zenos rested his hip against the desk, examining him with a critical eye as Miah’to stared back at his towering figure unflinchingly. On impulse, Miah’to pulled his feet up and stood to his full height on top of the chair, sparing only a cursory thought for the blood he’d walked through on the way from the Captain’s quarters.

Zenos chuckled as the move brought them face to face. “You are bold for one who walks in a wolves’ den.”

“Better to walk among wolves than cutthroat bastards,” Miah’to retaliated. “A wolf may have honour.”

His smirk became a grin, and though his teeth were no different from a Hyur’s, Miah’to couldn’t help but feel reminded of a shark. “Even a wolf from Garlemald?”

“You saved my life,” said Miah’to. “Not just from death, but from years of torment.”

Zenos seemed to consider him for a moment before he turned to the great-axe against the wall and lifted it into his hands, inspecting the blade. Burning sapphires met silver over the sharpened edge and narrowed calculatedly. “Do you know how to wield this?”

Miah’to bit his lip at the sudden shift in conversation and nodded. “Yes. My fa—the Captain was teaching me.”

A single blond eyebrow was raised, but Zenos did not comment on the slip-up. “We will be arriving back in Doma in the morning. I want to see what you are capable of.”

Miah’to opened his mouth to speak and found himself in the rare condition of being at a loss for words. The thought of facing his angel in combat at once filled him with dread and anticipation; his excitement at physically engaging Zenos warring with the image of the Captain collapsing like a puppet with its strings cut. Unthinking, he raised his hand to touch the dried blood on his cheek.

“Ah yes.” Those sapphire eyes tore themselves away from Miah’to’s as Zenos strode over to the door, pulling it open slightly to murmur something to one of the guards—just too softly for him to make out. Leaving the door ajar, Zenos then headed over to the dresser on the far side of his bed to retrieve a coat to wear over his under-armour. A wine red cloak followed, and Miah’to watched him as he surreptitiously lowered himself to sit in the chair. Moments later a guard entered, carrying a bucket full of water and a washcloth, and placed it on the desk in front of Miah’to. She was dismissed with a glance from Zenos, and then his angel addressed him once more. “Clean up, then sleep. You will be needing your strength in the morning.”

Miah’to blinked, standing from his seat abruptly. “Sleep _here?_ ”

“Where else?” Zenos turned his back on him, and before Miah’to could gather the words for a response, his angel made a swift departure. The door closed behind him with a decisive click and Miah’to was left standing with one hand clenching his shirt over his chest. He could feel his heart pounding beneath curled fingers.

Miah’to liked to believe that he was not ignorant. His mother taught him to read and write when he was a child, and there was much to learn from peers, travelers, and experience in Limsa Lominsa. The Captain and his crew taught him even more. He knew that acts of kindness rarely came without a price, and the notion of a shared bed left little room for ambiguity. How many times had he been told that he was pretty? That he had a perfect mouth? That his body was _made_ for fucking? Miah’to knew how sex between men worked. It had been explained to him by a pair of laughing Roegadyns in the Drowning Wench back in Limsa as they grinned knowingly at one another, and a year later it was whispered in his ear as fingers curled around his waist mere seconds before his unwanted suitor was pitched over the railing and into the sea by a fuming Captain.

A shiver went down his spine and Miah’to snatched the washcloth in his hands, dunking it in the water before bringing it up to scrub his face. The water was cold enough to make his breath hitch as it made contact with his skin, but it was invigorating, clearing away the clutter of his thoughts.

The idea of being touched by Zenos was not wholly unappealing. The Garlean angel was attractive, _beautiful_ even, with those curved lips and piercing blue eyes. Miah’to had liked the way his long fingers wrapped around the handle of his great-axe and how his hair fell in a golden curtain across the left side of his face. But he couldn’t help feeling intimidated at the thought of being _taken_ by him, particularly given their difference in size. Standing next to him, Miah’to had scarcely come up to Zenos’ waist. It would be excruciating unless his angel was exceptionally gentle with him. The more he imagined it, the more he blushed. Was Garlemald really so accepting of interracial relations that its prince would be permitted to lay with a Miqo’te?

Miah’to lowered the cloth from his face and froze as the white fabric came away pink. In his mind’s eye, twin lakes of blood grew until they became conjoined. A’linh and the Captain.

He ground his teeth together and tugged off his clothing in jerking movements. He wanted to erase every trace of the last two years from his body: the hands on his arms, the whip at his back, the salt on his skin. Make himself anew as he moved onto a new chapter of his life with his Garlean angel. Discarding his clothes on the floor, Miah’to rinsed the washcloth in the bucket before he brought it to his chest and arms, stomach and back, his legs and in between them, rubbing until his flesh turned pink and raw. And when finally he felt clean enough to stand the sensation of fabric against his skin, he stared at the heap on the floor and felt nothing but revulsion. Those clothes belonged to the Captain before they became his. They were saturated with years of sweat and now splattered with blood.

Coming to a decision, Miah’to padded his way across the wooden floor until he stood in front of the dresser. It took two tries until he found the drawer that housed Zenos’ shirts, and the scent of pine intertwined with citrus as it wafted upward. It smelled fresh. Miah’to retrieved a plain, white shirt from the stack and pulled it on over his head, satisfied when it reached down to just above his knees. An appetizing treat for his angel when he returned, Miah’to thought. He had read that it was erotic to find one’s partner in your clothes, and it certainly felt erotic to him to wear them.

Out of the corner of his eye, Miah’to took notice of Zenos’ armour still scattered across the floor, and for a moment he toyed with the idea of replacing it in the open wardrobe. But then it occurred to him what his angel did while wearing it, and the thought of placing his hand in yet more blood made him wrinkle his nose with disgust. If Zenos did not attend to his armour personally, then surely one of his servants would; it was not Miah’to’s responsibility.

With that resolved, Miah’to climbed onto the four-poster bed, eyes going wide as the mattress dipped deliciously beneath his weight. It was so soft! On a number of occasions, the Captain had brought him with the crew to stay at inns onshore, but those excursions were exceedingly rare and none of the cots he’d slept in compared to this. This truly was a bed fit for a prince. Miah’to slipped beneath the blankets and sighed as warmth enveloped him, and when he pressed his cheek into the pillow he inhaled that same clean, pine and citrus fragrance—as well as something else that was spicy and slightly musky. _Zenos’ scent_ , he realized, and buried his face in the pillow as heat flooded his cheeks.

Though the thought of being discovered in his bed was alluring, he privately hoped that Zenos would not return yet for at least a few hours. The adrenaline from his untimely wakeup call had long since faded, leaving him exhausted and sluggish, as if he’d spent the last two hours treading water. He would make a poor lover, even accounting for his inexperience. Thus far, he had been extraordinarily fortunate between his sudden rescue and the Garlean prince’s unexpected show of hospitality—here was hoping that his good fortune held out for the rest of the night.

He did not know how to turn off the magitek lights, and at this point was too tired to care. Closing his eyes, Miah’to thought of blond hair and flashing steel, and then he thought of nothing more.

 

 

A deep voice as rich as honey.

“We have arrived.”

Miah’to squeezed his eyes shut and groaned in sleepy protest, burrowing further into the blankets that surrounded him. For a brief moment, he wondered absently if this was how a caterpillar felt in its chrysalis: safe and secure and so, so warm—but then the voice registered in his mind as well as the scent that encircled him. Miah’to pushed his bangs back from his forehead, feeling them curl between his fingers, and sat up to blink blearily at the room. He quickly found his angel seated in the chair by his desk, watching Miah’to with those breathtakingly blue eyes as he rested his chin in his hand.

Miah’to frowned, twisting around to look for a window only to recall that there was none. “You didn’t sleep…?”

“I had no need of it.” Zenos’ gaze flickered down toward Miah’to’s chest. “I see that you have taken liberties with your attire.”

Miah’to opened his mouth to inquire about his meaning when last night’s memories returned in a rush. He suddenly became very aware of the fact that he was dressed in one of Zenos’ shirts and nothing else, bare skin sliding against fabric. His face felt like it was burning. How foolish he had been. He forced his lips to shape words and gave voice to them. “Would you rather I slept in your bed drenched in blood?”

His angel was unmoved by his apparent indignity. “I am merely curious as to whether you are possessed of any self-preservation instinct. After all, your previous charge met his end at my sword.”

Miah’to glared back defiantly, ears lying flat against his head. “And had I the skill and opportunity, I would have sooner slain him myself. I have no love for him.”

Zenos’ voice lowered in both volume and pitch, taking on an intimate tone that rumbled through his bones. “That look in your eyes… You have taken a life before.”

“Yes.”

His angel studied him for a long minute before he said, “Then we shall soon see if your words are more than air. Come.”

Miah’to chewed his lower lip and did not stir, hands fisting in the blankets on either side of his hips. “I would change into my own clothing first.”

Zenos smirked with cruel amusement. “You made your bed; you may lie in it.”

“I already am, but now you are bidding me to leave it,” he shot back.

A beat. The comment elicited a short laugh from the Garlean prince, but when he replied, his voice bore a razor’s edge. “Your clever tongue will only get you so far and my patience wears thin. Change, if it pleases you, but do not make me wait, lest I wrest it from between your jaws.”

There was a remark to be made about the many uses for a clever tongue, but the danger in Zenos’ words was visceral, bringing once more to the forefront of his mind the image of how easily he had butchered A’linh and the Captain. The shining tip of his blade like a steel stigma in a scarlet flower. It set Miah’to’s heart racing and stayed his lips against temptation. His collection of scars was a testament to his fondness for tempting fate, but even he knew better than to provoke an angel of death beyond his limits. He could survive a lashing; a sword was less permissive.

Miah’to rose from the bed with his head held high as he marched past Zenos to where he’d dropped his rucksack the previous night, next to the desk. He spared not a single glance for his prince while he retrieved a change of clothing from his bag, because his obedience also had its limits. Then he said, “Turn around and don’t look, or I’ll never forgive you.”

Zenos did not grace his insolence with a verbal response, but moved to the centre of the room with his back to the Miqo’te teen. Miah’to changed quickly, dropping Zenos’ shirt from his arms before pulling on his smallclothes and trousers. Once his vest was buttoned and stocking-clad feet were placed into boots, he slung his rucksack over his shoulder, gil jangling with its movement. Finally, he seized his great-axe from its position against the wall and squeezed the handle tightly.

He said, “Okay. I’m ready.”

His angel turned to him impassively, sapphire eyes flickering up and down his figure, and approached with slow, predatory steps as Miah’to’s eyes widened. When at last they stood, navel to nose, Zenos took the axe from Miah’to’s unresisting hands and loosened the strap looped around its handle in perfunctory motions until he could sling the weapon across Miah’to’s back, over his rucksack. He swallowed as Zenos’ hands adjusted the strap at his shoulder and beneath the opposite arm, fingers slightly chilled between the leather and his clothes. Then he stepped back.

“ _Now_ you are ready.”

 

 

The fishing villages along the Ruby Sea had been modest; built more for functionality than aesthetic purposes. Serviceability was their only requirement. As Miah’to disembarked from the Garlean ship with Zenos and an escort of soldiers, he was greeted with Doman architecture in its full splendor: red brick and emerald tile, sweeping roofs and towering spires of gold. Geometric designs engraved in wood and stone. Doma Castle was built on the canal in the heart of a valley, sequestered by a scarlet wall built into the mountain that cradled it. The great archways that once granted passage to the castle via the road and waterway were now closed with magitek barriers that glowed ceruleum blue. In the twenty-odd years since Garlemald had been occupying Doma, their own modifications had been incorporated into the structure: cannons mounted on rooftops and magitek devices Miah’to could neither name nor place a use for.

Miah’to gazed at it all with wonder as he was led from the dock to the sprawling courtyard, past the extension buildings toward the massive heart of the castle. Instead of entering the main building as he expected, he was led to an extension building to the left, where two guards saluted the prince before opening the twin wooden doors before them. The building was modest in size and consisted of only a single room. The floor was covered with a dark tatami mat and the walls were paneled with wood, hung with simple scrolls and Doman script.

As Zenos strode into the centre of the room, he looked over his shoulder at his soldiers and said in a bored tone, “You are dismissed. I have no need of you.” Then his gaze settled on the leader of the escort and he added, “Except for you, Pilus. I would have your sword.”

The Imperial froze. “My—? Yes, of course! At once, my lord.” She stepped forward and drew her blade from its sheath, surrendering it to Zenos handle-first with a respectful bow.

Zenos held the blade up to his face for a moment, then gave it a testing swing. “You may watch from the door in case I have need of a chirurgeon.”

“Yes, my lord.”

As her men exited the building, the commanding officer took her place next to the doorway dutifully. Miah’to watched bewilderedly from where he stood several steps into the room, tail twitching with agitation. Zenos had discarded his cloak and moved just off from the room’s epicenter, facing Miah’to with his sword held in a ready position.

Miah’to’s lips parted as he stared at his angel. Did he not have duties to attend to upon his return from the Ruby Sea? Neither of them wore armour and he wielded a borrowed blade. “You want to test my abilities _now_?” he asked.

“There is no better time than the present,” Zenos replied. “Why delay the inevitable? I require of you one thing and one thing only: fight as if you wish to kill me. Like you would love nothing more than to feel flesh and bone give way beneath the weight of your blade. To taste my blood on your lips as you tasted the blood of your captor.”

Miah’to frowned as he took the Captain’s great-axe from his back and then awkwardly wriggled free of his rucksack. It fell to the floor with a dull thud and he took a few steps forward to close the distance between them. “I have no desire to kill you.”

A humourless smirk crept across Zenos’ lips. “Surely an Eorzean savage such as yourself can find ample justification to slay a prince of Garlem—”

Zenos was cut off as Miah’to darted forward, using his momentum to power the swing of his axe. Zenos’ sword came up to meet it with a loud, metallic clang.

His angel laughed. “Using speech as a distraction. Alas, cunning will not save you in a battle of strength.”

To emphasize his point, Zenos used the strength of his arm to push Miah’to back. Remembering how Zenos had taken advantage of the Captain’s loss of balance to cut him down, Miah’to remained light on his feet, moving _with_ the motion of their blades so that he was ready to parry Zenos’ retaliatory strike. The force behind the blow was enough to make Miah’to’s arms shake as he caught it with his axe, gritting his teeth, but he held fast until he could safely step back to free his weapon and make a diagonal slash at Zenos’ body.

For a time it continued like this, with each of them trading blows as irritation began to climb up Miah’to’s spine. Zenos was toying with him. Though he overpowered Miah’to with ease, it was clear that he was not using his full strength and he fended off every counterattack with an expression of ennui. Miah’to snarled with frustration and his motions became wilder. He still allowed himself to move with Zenos’ sword with every clash of their blades, but he put more of his body weight into each swing and made more daring choices—sweeping his axe at Zenos’ legs, letting his grip slip to the end of the handle to lengthen his axe’s reach. And through it all, Zenos moved like war was the breath in his lungs: fluid, with every lunge and parry coming as naturally as a reflex. Blue eyes flashing like lightning.

Zenos sidestepped a strike and brought his blade up, slicing through the sleeve of Miah’to’s shirt and leaving a shallow, stinging cut on his forearm. Instead of deterring his efforts, however, Miah’to found himself galvanized, as if the burst of pain had set his nerves aflame. With a wordless yell of anger, Miah’to slammed the blade of his axe against Zenos’ sword, then slid it down towards the hilt in his angel’s hands. Zenos slipped his weapon free and Miah’to ducked as it arced over his back, and then vaulted himself forward to slice at Zenos’ exposed side.

What happened next occurred too rapidly for Miah’to to process until the action was completed. Zenos dropped his sword and, in the same movement, brought around his hand to catch the handle of Miah’to’s axe, mid-swing. Using his grip and the inertia behind Miah’to’s strike, Zenos redirected the blade to his right while he plunged downward to slam their foreheads together.

Looking at it, Miah’to wasn’t sure what he had thought a Garlean’s third eye would feel like to the touch. Though it was referred to as an eye, he knew that it was not a true one and it looked more like a pearl than an organ made for vision. Milky white and smooth, almost chatoyant in the way that it simultaneously captured light and casted shadow within itself.

It was hard—a tooth that bit into his scalp as their heads collided together—but the pain of it was muted against the white noise of his brain rattling in its skull, stars flashing before his eyes. Miah’to’s hands relinquished his axe into Zenos’ helplessly as he fell to his knees, this time his own blood coating his face as it ran down his skin in hot rivulets. Miah’to spluttered and gasped as it dribbled over his lips, filling his mouth with the taste of iron. The Captain’s great-axe fell to his side with a clatter as Zenos dropped it carelessly.

“You adapt quickly,” he said, “but you are _weak_. Undisciplined. A novice hunter who would sooner fall victim to his prey than kill it.”

Miah’to hissed, baring his teeth as he blinked through the blood at his angel. “Then make me strong. I want—” He cut himself off.

Zenos looked down at him with those burning sapphire eyes. “Tell me what you want.”

“I want to never feel helpless again.” Miah’to’s voice shook. His head was still spinning, spikes of pain still lancing through his skull. “I don’t want to be someone who needs to be rescued or protected. From _anything_. I want to become strong enough to repay my debt to you, and…” He took a deep breath and drank in the sight of his Garlean angel standing above him. The light catching in his hair and spinning it into a golden halo. Those long, dark lashes and pink lips. The streak of blood that now tinged his third eye pink. He remembered the feeling of a gauntleted thumb caressing his cheek before the order was given for his prison’s destruction. “I want _you_ , Zenos.” The shape of his angel’s name in his mouth sent a thrill through his veins.

Zenos threw back his head and laughed, teeth flashing. Miah’to glared back determinedly, not allowing himself to be shamed or cowed. Zenos said, “Do you not realize to whom you speak?”

“I have been informed,” Miah’to replied coolly. “I merely have no care for who you are to Garlemald. You could be a foot soldier, or an adventurer beholden to no man or nation, and I would still feel the same.”

“Have you no loyalty to your homeland?”

“For two years I was held captive on that ship!” Miah’to spat. “Two _years_ , and no one ever came for me! Not the Maelstrom or the Twin Adder or the Immortal fucking Flames! Not one of Eorzea’s Grand Companies spared the men to save a single child. And even if saving me was not your intent when you laid siege to my fa—the Captain’s—ship, you _still did_.”

Zenos stared back at him for a long minute with unreadable eyes before he bent down and cupped Miah’to’s chin in one hand. With the pad of his thumb, he smeared the blood over his lips, staining them red. Voice low and intimate, he said, “I can make you stronger than all of them, if you survive. It will not be easy. You will be forged into a weapon, as I was, and then tested. You will bleed again and again until it is no longer your own blood that you taste on your tongue.” Gently, he pressed his thumb inward and Miah’to’s cheeks filled with heat as he accepted it into his mouth. “And when you become powerful enough, you can _take_ what you want.”

Miah’to’s eyes fell closed with a shudder and he leaned into Zenos’ touch, his flush deepening like a ripening fruit as he lapped at the thumb and pressed it between his teeth teasingly. It occurred to him that he could bite down and taste Zenos’ blood now, but a warning voice in his head held him at bay—his conscience making a rare appearance.

Out of nowhere there came a jolt. Miah’to flinched away from the Garlean prince as his heartbeat throbbed in his temples—not painfully, but overwhelming him with a wave of dizziness. His lips parted, but there was no time to speak before his vision faded out with the undertow. He felt himself tipping over like a capsizing ship, and then…

Darkness.

A long stretch of darkness until suddenly he could see again: muted images that were rough around the edges like a fraying tapestry. He was in a stately courtyard, standing on a cobblestone path that wound around a sparse garden. There were few leaves left on the trees and most of the plants had already begun hibernation, leaving them brown and barren. Three figures stood in the centre of the path: an adolescent boy with golden hair and eyes that held the sky; a hunting hound with dark fur that sat obediently next to him; and a tall man with platinum hair who stood with his back to them both. When he turned around, his face seemed to be etched with a permanent frown and his citrine eyes were colder and emptier than anything Miah’to had ever seen. The bottom of the deepest ocean trench, the middle of the darkest winter night. Miah’to knew immediately that this was the boy’s father.

He asked, “How long has it been now that you have cared for your hound?”

The boy met his father’s permafrost eyes, his posture rigid and perfect, and said, “It has been four years now, my lord. He has served me well.”

The man’s eyes slid to the hound. “What was it that you called it?”

“Sergius, my lord,” the boy replied.

In a commanding tone, the man called, “Sergius,” and the hound padded over to sit in front of him with expectant brown eyes. For a brief moment, the man simply stared at the beast before he reached down to grab him by the scruff of the neck. The hound barked with outrage, growling low in his throat, and the man drew a knife from his belt. To his son, he said, “I want you to kill it. Now. And if you do not do so quickly, then _I_ will, and I will not be so merciful.”

The boy’s eyes widened with horror, and then… and then… and then…

Darkness.

And a matronly voice.

‘ _Hear… Feel… Think…_ ’

Miah’to’s feet touched a rippling surface and he found himself standing in a field full of stars. His limbs felt heavy, and as he looked down at himself he discovered that he was dressed in full armour, weighted down with leather and steel. A thousand questions sprung to his mind, but before he could give coherency to a single one of them, a being appeared from a plume of smoke in the distance: a black-robed Hyur wearing a deep red mask. A shiver ran through Miah’to—though he couldn’t fathom how, he could feel something inherently _wrong_ about the man, like an empty boat at sea or a sheet of glass that held no reflection.

Magic gathered at the man’s fingertips and Miah’to’s heart began to pound before he was suddenly overcome with a deep calm, as if he had surfaced in a tranquil lake. Somehow, he knew exactly what to do. He held out his arms and a weapon forged from light materialized in his waiting hands: a great-axe that was made just for him, almost blinding in its brightness. And as the black-robed man advanced on him, Miah’to raised his axe to meet him, and…

Miah’to opened his eyes with a gasp. Tatami flooring was spread out beneath him until it met a wall of paneled wood. His head ached and he groaned as he tried to roll himself onto his back, catching sight of an enormous Garlean man making his way over to a set of double doors and the Imperial soldier who stood solemnly next to them. _Golden hair and sky blue eyes_.

Miah’to choked out, “Zenos!” and the man turned to him.

“Ah. You are awake. You were more fragile than I expected.”

Miah’to pushed himself into a sitting position, ignoring the way his head spun in his haste to get out his words. “I saw you! You were a boy—perhaps twelve summers old—and there was a hound!” A sharp look stayed his voice as he caught his breath. He panted and continued, “Your father was there and he told you to kill it. You named him—”

“Sergius,” Zenos said quietly, a strange expression overtaking his face. He crossed the room with long strides until he was standing in front of Miah’to once more. “You saw this?”

A fierce nod. “Yes! It was late autumn. Your father, he… He gave you an ultimatum.”

“A pitiful end,” said Zenos. “There is no sport in slaying a tame pet.”

Miah’to’s heart thudded and he licked his lips as he took a steadying breath. “I… You asked me, this morning, if I had killed before. Once… And it was like your hound. My—” he closed his eyes “—the _Captain_ and his men caught a member of a rival crew. Tied him up and gave me an axe.” He didn’t finish. He didn’t need to. He met Zenos’ gaze.

“You find it distasteful. Dishonourable. I can see it from your eyes,” his angel said. “You are no butcher poised for slaughter, but a hunter. You wish for prey that will fight back and present a challenge.”

Miah’to swallowed. “There was a second vision. I was wearing armour and a woman’s voice was echoing through my mind. Then a masked man in a black robe appeared before me and I fought him with an axe made of light.”

Zenos pursed his lips as he considered Miah’to for a long minute, a pregnant silence growing between them. A pit grew in Miah’to’s stomach and his tail curled with mortification as he realized how far-fetched his own words sounded. Like a fever dream. Then Zenos’ mouth curled into a smirk and he reached down to stroke Miah’to’s hair, fingertips trailing over the back of his left ear.

“How right I was to spare your life,” he said, almost affectionately. “You are turning out to be… most _interesting_.”

Miah’to sighed as he pressed into Zenos’ hand. His beautiful angel of death who was primed for war by an unloving father—just like him. Miah’to curled his hand into a fist and brought it to his own chest, feeling his heart beat beneath clothes and skin.

 _I will protect him_ , he vowed, and silver pierced the sky.

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> Lots more characterization this time around. I really hope you're enjoying the way I'm portraying the WoL (and yes, he really is _like this_ in my game canon for him too, haha) and the way I've written Zenos. He's an interesting one. Always happy to hear feedback!


End file.


You don't remember how long you've spent here, nor why. Mayhap you came here to numb yourself -- to forgive, to forget, or to finally cease your aether’s flow.

Though, you do remember the grueling trek here for refuge seeming a lifetime ago. The weather now is much the same as that day, the only respite that of a peculiar silver haired elezen’s warm smile and open arms.

This was to be the Scion’s new headquarters, the “Falling Snows,” as he proposed – that, you admit, made you laugh, the only sound you made since fleeing Ul’dah. You and Tataru swore Alphinaud jumped clear out of his boots at the sound. So much for formal introductions.

Initially he did seem odd. Enamored glances thrown your way as you left to do this and that for the camp, be it slaying beasts or aiding in the kitchen. How his eyes sparkled in admiration and gratitude as he bowed low and thanked you at the end of each day. It was confusing – slayer of primals being thanked for menial tasks. Not that you minded being able to lend a hand and subsequently forget about the world's problems for a while. It was… peaceful. The kind of life you wished to escape to, someday.

It was difficult to drop your stoic façade at first, but in no time you came to enjoy exchanging stories of your adventures with him. Sometimes he'd even join you during your daily tasks, wanting a break from stuffy paperwork to stretch his legs and enjoy a few bells alone with you.

As you spent more time with him, you quickly understood why those under his command respected him, coming to admire him greatly as well. Though, you suspected “admired” wasn’t quite the right word.

The realization hit you harder than a chocobo's kick one afternoon out with him.  He wasn't exactly odd, no – he was simply completely head over heels in love with you. And you were for him, too.

You were grateful for his company, especially when certain cuddly, murderous creatures managed to get the better of you. More than once you only remembered being struck before waking up in the infirmary, chirurgeons desperately trying to keep him from smothering you. You didn't know whether to laugh or be embarrassed: The famed Warrior of Light bested by a karakul.

When the time to face the primal Shiva came and passed, you could only blush and stammer after being told of his men struggling to hold him back as he learned news of you leaving. The trial was not easy by any means and you did gain new scars, but you came back – you always did. It was what was expected of you. You recall no one being that distraught about your whereabouts, no one truly caring that much about your life. It set your heart aflutter.

On days when raging blizzards rolled through, you found yourself awake well into the night with him, sharing a bottle or two (or three) of whichever far off wines you brought from your collection as a gift that day. Your combined laughter rang throughout the large room, echoing off the high stone walls; it drowned out the howling winds that sent shivers up your spine. Those nights you couldn’t help but accept the invitations to his chambers, couldn’t help how enticing the privacy sounded. It was then when he shielded you from the world, when blood needed not be shed. Only the fragile mask you wore with a heavy heart.

That was something you missed, something you so desperately needed back – not just the intimacy, but the not having to be the realm’s shield, even if only for a night. What you wouldn’t give for just one more... If that is a selfish request you can’t bring yourself to care.

Your chest burns with the heartache, burns so hot you cannot contain it as it boils over. You're using your greatsword as a support now, precariously balanced so you don't fall into the snow and and draw your last breath. Not that you didn’t consider it, though you’d never admit that to anyone. A most informal, honorless death for Hydaelyn’s own Warrior of Light. Her _Weapon_ of Light.

Oh, how terribly you want to cry, but what good would it do; crying doesn't bring back the dead as much as you wish it did, for you cannot recall how many tears you silently shed in the shadows after every battle.

Yet you allow yourself this one moment of weakness, hot tears freezing as they reach your lips, salty and somehow… bitter, you imagine. A reflection of yourself: Bitterly angry at the world, at yourself, even him. Bitter and biting like the wind that whips at your face, forcing you to curl in on yourself further, forcing everyone else away. Bitter like the laughter bubbling from your lips; spiteful, choking. Bitter like the words – your curse – floating up from that dark abyss-flame in your heart to tip of your tongue, that dare not be spoken aloud:

_Woe betides the man who stands opposed to the Weapon of Light, for death will be his reward. Death for him and his kin and all that he holds dear. Woe betides the man who stands with the Weapon of Light, for death will be his reward. Death for him and his kin and all that he holds dear._

This was your fate, the fate of anyone unlucky enough to cross paths with you. Was he truly unlucky to have known you, then? No. You know full well he would disagree wholeheartedly, all the while wiping tears from your scarred face, no judgement to be found in his steadfast gaze; the image brings the faintest smile to your lips, and in your mind you can see – no, feel him smiling a hundred fold in response. It brings much needed warmth and energy to your weary body.

After the hurt fades enough for your ever stoic mask to creep its way to the surface, you turn away from the broken shield and set yourself on a path back towards Camp Dragonhead; you’re drawn to its aetheryte, not needing to see in the squall.

Admittedly, you know it was more than the aetheryte that drew you – you could feel his aether pushing, pulling, guiding you towards a warm hearth and comforting bed. Towards the shield you needed just once more.

Your mind wanders as your feet trudge on, shoulders hunched, braced against the cold and snow. Trying to not collapse once more, to not break the meager thread that held your heart together.

 _A knight lives to serve, there is no greater calling than this_ – but he was so much more than just another knight, he was the hope incarnate you so desperately sought after so long of being everyone else’s.

In the end, you decide you’ll continue fighting. Fighting and living for the day you’ll cast your weapon aside and he’ll welcome you with that loving, adoring smile and his warm, open arms once more.

 _Please, please wait for me_ , you plead. You don't know how long you must wait, continue this unending bloody war. He answers, his sweet laughter drowning out the storm, encouraging you onwards towards the future, one step at a time.

“ _...Think of me, and I will be with you. Always. For where else could I go? Who else could I love but you?_ ”

♘♘♘

**Author's Note:**

> I hope you enjoyed!! Please leave a comment if you did, I'm trying to improve with my writing so anything would be a huge help. Thanks so much for reading!! :^)


End file.


One night, Harkas was roused from her slumber as the door to her room creaked. Only half awake, she reached for the knife kept on the nightstand before investigating. There, carrying a small candle atop a brass holder, was Y’shtola, and letting out a sign of relief, Harkas set the knife back down.  
“Alphinaud’s kept you busy, huh?” the warrior asked, causing the miqo’te to jump in surprise, taking a steadying breath before she spoke.  
“Ah, Harkas. Yes, he has. Organising a governing body is arduous work, but it needs be done. I didn’t expect you to still be awake, though.” She glanced over at the chronometer on the wall nearby, which showed twenty minutes past midnight.  
“Well truth be told I wasn’t, but given how my life has gone I’m not that heavy of a sleeper.” Harkas shrugged.  
“Then you have my apologies for waking you.” Y’shtola gave a slight bow to emphasize her words before she moved over to the bed on the other side of the room, setting the candle down on the table beside it. “Though your being awake does have an advantage. You and your companions did come up during this most recent meeting.”. Harkas adjusted herself, sitting up more in her bed.  
“We did? Why, what do we need to do now?” She asked, a hint of weariness in her voice.  
“Not in that regard, Harkas.” The archon waved a hand dismissively. “It was in recognition of all the work you’ve all done for our cause. Gods only know what we’d have done without the warriors of light. We may well have never made it out of the Rhalgrs Reach attack.”.

Harkas winced, the grim memories of the fight flooding back. The first fight with Zenos, the crushing of the resistance and most pointedly the near loss of Y’shtola. Curative magic had removed any visible sign of the wound, though Harkas still found herself gazing at where it would be as Y’shtola adjusted the bedsheets.  
“Truth be told we may never have driven the XIVth legion from Eorzea without you all. We all owe you a great deal and we’d been discussing what we could do to repay our gratitude though we weren’t able to come up with much so far.” The Archon continued before she hesitated, briefly glancing back at Harkas. “There were a few suggestions about yourself, though I doubt they were anything other than a jest.” Harkas tilted her head, curious.  
“Let me guess. Lyse? Thancred?”  
“Alisae, actually.”. Harkas rolled her eyes, giving a sigh.  
“I want to say I’m surprised, but she’s not as much like her brother as she used to be. What’d she say?”  
“Well…” Y’shtola took a moment to ponder the best approach. “She said that considering how you feel about me, that a kiss would suffice for you.”

Immediately, Harkas went pale, her breath catching in her throat.  
“Wh-what’d you say?” she asked, nervously staring at the Miqo’te.  
“That she said a kiss would suffice?”  
“No…the bit about…how I felt?” Harkas looked like she’d seen a ghost, nerves clearly getting the better of her, and the Archon sighed.  
“You may be a great warrior. You may be part of a team that combats the gods themselves. But your strengths do not extend to hiding your expressions.” She gave a brief chuckle, before continuing. “We’ve all seen how you look at me when you think nobody can see. You’d need to be blind to miss it.”. Again, Harkas winced, knowing full well Y’shtolas’ secret.  
“So…everyone knows? Everyone knows…that…that I…love…you?” With every hesitation, Harkas’ voice shrank. Even her giant body seemed to shrink away as she spoke, and the Miqo’te shrugged in response.  
“Unfortunately, that seems to be the case. We figured it’d be best to keep the knowledge secret, but you were bound to find out some time. At least this way it would be…” her words trailed off and slowly she focussed more on Harkas’ face, her gaze growing more intense, more scrutinising by the second. “What…what did you just say?”

The reality of her mistake hit Harkas harder than any Garlean war machine had ever managed. What little colour remained in her face was gone and she could’ve sworn she felt her heart stop.  
“Harkas. What did you just say?” Y’shtola asked once again, drawing closer to the retreating warrior.  
“I thought that was what you meant.” Harkas’ voice was far meeker than Y’shtola had ever heard it prior. “When you said you knew how I felt.”.  
“Then it seems we were both wrong.” The Archon’s tone still bore some softness, but her intention to probe further were clear. “We had assumed that your feelings were simple affection, a crush, as they say. Or as Lyse ‘delicately’ put it, that you were ‘smitten by the kitten’.”. Gently, she set herself down on the edge of Harkas’ bed, watching the warrior as she pulled her knees up to her chest and buried her face.  
“A couple of years ago I’d have agreed with you.” Her response was muffled, but still understandable, though she adjusted her legs just enough for her words to be clearer. “But it’s been so long and my feelings just, haven’t changed. When we first met at the Seasong Grotto, when you saved me from those spirits, I could barely take my eyes off you. Then you left, and I assumed that was it. And then we met again, and again. Rei and I joined the Scions and I saw you more than ever. I got to know you, to work with you, and every time I counted myself lucky.” Slowly Harkas emerged from behind her knees, opting to stare out of the window as her story went on. “We fought Eikons, Garleans and Ascians as our duty required, and while my immediate thoughts were always on the mission, on protecting my sister and the rest of the team, there was always that part of me that looked forward to seeing you again. But we were always so busy that I never got an opportunity to come clean.” Her voice was wistful, solemn as opposed to her usual brash nature, and she took a deep breath, steadying herself. Slowly her colour was returning and while she was relaxing more, she was still far more vulnerable than normal.  
“And then it happened. The Crystal Braves, the Sultana…the framed assassination. You all gave yourselves so that the rest of us could escape. And…and I lost you. Well, I thought I had, and I felt…well, lost. We were fortunate in that House Fortemps was gracious enough to accept us. That Haurchefant…” again, Harkas trailed off as she remembered her lost friend. “that he took us into his home and made us welcome. I missed you, but I still had a duty to do, a sister to protect. Even Alphinaud needed a shoulder to lean on. So, I did my best to stay strong, people were depending on me. Maybe someday I’d be able to avenge you in some way.”

Their borrowed room gave an impressive view over the Lochs of Ala Mhigo. The salt beaches gleamed in the moonlight, lights danced in the city below them. It was a stark contrast to Ishgard, and even despite the frigid weather, Harkas knew that’s where she’d rather be.  
“Turns out you weren’t gone. Just trapped somewhere. I don’t really know the details, just that when we found out we could save you I…” Harkas slowly turned to face Y’shtola again, the faintest hint of a smile softening her features. “I’ve never felt such relief. Seriously. Watching you emerge from that light is something I’ll never forget. And unlike Alphinaud it’s not just because you were…well, bare as your first namesday, I think he put it.” Her smile turned into a smirk as the archon turned away, just a hint of red in her cheeks. She hadn’t said a word since Harkas had started explaining. She just simply sat, and listened as the warrior bared her heart.  
“I think that was when I realised that maybe this was more than just a small crush. This was almost two years since we first met and…and none of my feelings had ever changed about you. Even when you were gone, presumed dead, you were on my mind and the thought kept me going no matter what happened.” The smirk had faded once more, though the warrior kept up a faint, vaguely hopeful smile as she watched her companion wander in thought, and slowly, Y’shtola turned to face her again.  
“Harkas…” her voice was soft, calming. “While I did what I had to, I didn’t mean to cause you distress, and I’m sorry that I did. But it gave you your chance to escape and from there you and your companions have done great things, and that is what matters.” She stated matter-of-factly, and Harkas simply nodded.  
“I guess so, yeah. I reckon it was also easier since I didn’t actually see it happen.” Again, Harkas’ eyes hovered over the area that should have been a large scar upon the miqo’te and sighed heavily. “Not like Rhalgrs Reach.” Instinctively, Y’shtolas’ hand rose to touch where Zenos’ blade had struck her. “When I saw your body on the floor, I was this close to losing it.” Harkas held her hand up, finger so close together they may as well have been touching. “I was lucky that Alphinaud and Krile were there, that told us that you were alive, that you could be saved. If they hadn’t…” Harkas’ face turned sombre as she thought. “Chances are I would’ve lost control, and given how that fight went I doubt I’d have survived. I’d have thrown myself at him until I didn’t even have the energy left to breathe, if he didn’t cut me down before that. After what happened with Rei sometimes you’re…you’re the only thing that keeps me going. I almost gave up there, too. Nearly drank myself into oblivion. Then one day I wake up like this.” 

She lifted her arms, flexing her fingers as she watched. “I still don’t actually know where I got the fantasia. Or if that’s even what did this. But I took it as a new start, I guess. A chance to be better. Didn’t change my feelings about you, but I promised that I’d keep you safe, gods know I’ve lost too many people I’ve grown close to, even if my feelings were never allowed to surface.” And her arms dropped again, and her head sagged. “though it’s a bit late to say that now. Even after all this I’m just as rough-cut, nothing deserving of your affection. When all is said and done, you’re far beyond me. You’re a scholar, you’re gifted at aether manipulation, at magic…and you’re beyond beautiful. And what am I? Just a person that swings an axe well and can survive things that no person has any right to. There’s no refinement to my skills, I just fight solely on instinct. Hell, I basically get by purely on instinct. I don’t have any skill in tactics like you or Alphinaud, I’d rather just act. I’m just some barbarian compared to you, like a pickaxe. I just smash something useable out for you and the other chisels to make something beautiful out of. I don’t have any business being with someone like you. That’s why I’ve tried to hide all these feelings, the fact that I want to be with you. It doesn’t sound like any simple crush, does it?” she gave a final, defeated sigh, before slowly lifting her head to await the reply. Y’shtola sat not even a foot away from the warrior, her gaze fixed on some undefined point on the floor as her head raced.

“No, I can’t say it does.” It came after a painful minute, and the Archon sounded troubled. “Truth be told, I’ve never much considered romance. With all that’s occurred, I’ve not had the time for such leisurely thoughts, and I find myself at a loss for words. I understand that this was not an easy subject for you to speak of, and I appreciate your honesty, but I know not how to respond.” Rising to her feet, she turned, just for a moment to face Harkas. “And I must apologise, but what you’ve said…You’ve given me much to think about, much to consider. But it’s going to take me time to organise my thoughts, and this is not the place for it, this close to you.” And Harkas watched her turn, moving for the door, her heart sinking. As the door creaked open once again, the Archon stopped, turning to face the huddled warrior just briefly. “I’m sorry, Harkas. But please, Stay strong. You’re not as useless as you make yourself out to be. We all rely on you, myself included. But I need time to think.”  
“Wait, Y’shtola.” Harkas called out before she left, and the Archon paused. “Please, don’t tell anyone. I don’t want anyone else having to worry about this. I didn’t want to trouble you with all this either but…it happened.”. The Miqo’te said nothing, but nodded before she vanished into the hallway, the inky darkness beyond eventually masking even her footsteps. It was another few minutes until Harkas finally moved again, and she did so without an utterance, extinguishing the candle and letting darkness overtake the room as she crawled under the blankets, curled herself into a ball, and lamented the mistakes she’d made this night, for chances are it had cost her friendship with the Y’shtola, until her eyes could take no more, and she slumbered.

 

When Harkas next stirred, the room was still a murky black, and while it took her a moment she eventually caught the time on the Chronometer. 3am, just over two hours since her admittance and glancing over at the vacant bed across the room told Harkas all she needed to know. Y’shtola had clearly decided to rest in a different room. After all, why would she stay here after everything that had happened? She could feel her heart shattering as she lowered her head, tears starting to form in her eyes, but as she went to roll over, to find some small comfortable position to lament in, she felt something else. A presence, a weight, beside her that wasn’t there previously, and it was no small weight, not a forgotten item, not displaced blankets. It was at least equivalent to a person and as she glanced over, she saw a lump. Something was under the blankets with her, though what she had no idea, most likely some filthy critter. Slowly, moving as little as possible, she reached for the side-table, for the knife resting upon it and as her fingers curled around the handle, her other grasped the corner of the blankets. Gently, she began to peel back the covers, trying not to disturb the unknown visitor, readying the knife to bring it down on whatever vermin before it had a chance to escape. What gave her pause was what she saw next. 

Where she expected some musty brown scrags of fur, instead she saw a soft, white, fuzzy ear. Then pale silken hair and then, smooth, tan skin and she froze. What she saw defied all her thoughts. Nestled up against her, forehead an inch from her chest, was the curled-up form of Y’shtola. She’d left her coat somewhere, sleeping in her undershirt and half tights, though there was barely enough room for the two of them. Her tail was hanging over the edge of the bed, her knees were brought up between both stomachs, one hand under her chin, the other just below. For the first time in years, Harkas was completely at a loss mouth agape. Her raised arm lowered as she replaced the knife on the table and remained there. She was truly at a loss for words. Not only had Y’shtola returned after all that had happened, she’d snuck into the room and into bed beside her, all without disturbing her. It was another minute before Harkas finally moved again, cautiously shifting her arm over, and tentatively brushing her fingers over the Archons ear, appreciating the silky soft fur that adorned them, only stopping when the ear twitched. Fearing waking the slumbering archon she pulled her arm back, deliberating for a moment, before opting to just attempt to sleep. After all, this may well just have been a dream. In fact, surely it was the most likely explanation. But she’d savour it nonetheless. Gently she curled her arm round the archons back, resting her hand on the hip, relishing the opportunity to hold her close and after ensuring they were both comfortably covered with the blankets, drifted away once more, this time feeling the best that she’d felt since…well, since the Archon emerged from the lifestream after months of Harkas assuming her dead.

 

The sun that poured through the window eventually woke Harkas, who took a moment to properly wake herself, head rolling lazily as Harkas enjoyed the warmth on her face. It took some time before she remembered the reason for her incredible mood, shifting her head so that she could gaze down at the archon, only to find an empty space beside her. Her face dropped a little, maybe it was just a dream. Her hand traced over where Y’shtola supposedly lay, brushing the sheets, wishing she was still there. But there was no sense lingering here. She had duties to do and just maybe Y’shtola would have an answer, some way to let her down gently. Throwing the blankets to the side, she rose from the bed, stretching her arms out, her hands just short of the ceiling, and getting dressed. Before she left, she made a bare minimum effort to tidy the bed, opting just to arrange the sheets, when something caught her eye. In the bed, where the archon had lay, were a couple of long hairs, not azure like Harkas’, but snow white, and the warrior stared at them. What this meant, was that was no dream Harkas had. That during the night, the two had indeed shared a bed, though Harkas still didn’t know why. But the why was irrelevant for the time being, and the warrior left with a spring in her step.

When lunchtime came around, Harkas had covered most of the city on the various tasks that Alphinaud. Most simple, some just annoying, and most of her clothing was soaked from a trip deep into the Salt Lake, though the blazing sun overhead was serving to dry them out fairly quickly, leaving white crystals clinging. Choosing a spot on the city wall overlooking the lochs, she rested in the shade of a watchtower, wolfing down the cured meats and bread she’d brought and taking a moment to relax. Resistance members regularly patrolled the area, on guard for potential threats, their footsteps a steady beat as they passed by, fading into the background. What snapped Harkas out of her trance was someone nearby calling her name. It took her a moment to locate the source, but sure enough she found it, and who else would it be than Y’shtola. The Miqo’te gleamed in the sunlight, making her even more stunning to look at.  
“Ah, good. I was told you’d been last seen around here. I’m glad I caught you before you moved on.” She said as she drew close, a soft smile on her face.  
“Yeah, I’ve just been having some food, zoning out a little bit before I get sent of to do something else.” The warrior replied. Even sat down she still rose to nearly the Miqo’tes’ chin.  
“Then do you have a moment? I have something I need to talk to you about. In private, preferably.” Her smile faded as her request came, and Harkas immediately knew what it was about, feeling a pit form in her stomach.  
“Sure. The towers are usually deserted if that’ll do.” The warrior replied, gesturing up at the tower shading them. When the archon nodded, Harkas rose to her feet, cracking her neck before the two of them moved over to the towers entrance, climbing the stairs together, in relative silence.

The top of the watchtower provided a spectacular view over all the surroundings, both the city, the palace and the lochs, and thankfully wasn’t manned at this time, leaving the two in peace, only the whisper of the wind and the distant hum of the city folk below.  
“You know what I’m about to talk about, don’t you?” Y’shtola finally broke the silence, to which Harkas just nodded an affirmation.  
“My confession, right?”  
“In part, yes. Though I also have something to confess myself, now.” The archon averted her gaze from the warrior, who simply watched her, partly entranced. “Last night, after you expressed your true feelings, I spent some time alone, wandering the halls of the palace trying to organise my thoughts.” Her shoulders sagged as she sighed. “I’ve had my share of admirers. Both fair and more…animalistic. All I’ve turned away without any hesitation. But most folk aren’t one of the warriors of light.” Turning back to Harkas, who had sat herself on a wooden stool someone had left behind. “and none have been quite so…emotional. In truth, you left me in quite the state. I’d be lying if I said that I felt nothing when you confessed. Quite the contrary, it stirred quite the reaction. I’ve relied on you and yours for a great deal these past years. You always come through for us even when things seem darkest. And last night, I came to realise that I relied on you more than I thought.”

Y’shtola normally spoke with considerable confidence, but now her voice was noticeably uncertain, shaky, though she did her best to keep herself from turning away from Harkas, who sat silently, watching the archon carefully and latched on every word. “Not just because you’re one of the few than can stand up to the eidolons, but because I know you’ll always be there, that if I ever fall, you’ll be there to catch me. So, at the very least, know that I appreciate you for all you do.”  
“You don’t have to thank me.” Harkas interjected, sounding incredibly humbled. “I do what I do because if I don’t, then we risk losing everything. Also, because…well, you know why.” Y’shtola nodded in agreement.  
“Even so. But I digress. Last night, as I wandered with my thoughts, I found myself torn. On the one hand, I had all these…feelings. Desires. And on the other, was the duties we all bare. We risk everything in these battles and we can ill afford extra distractions. I ought to focus on the good of Eorzea above that of my own.” She did her best to remain stern faced, but Harkas could see the cracks in her resolve. The slight tremble in her hands, the uncertainty in her voice. “In the end, I found myself unable to come to a decision, so I took a page from your book. I let my instincts take over, let them decide my path. After all, it’s gotten you this far, even if you feel it barbaric.” 

Y’shtola fell silent as she considered her next words, her hand on her chin, fingers curled over her lips. Moments passed as Harkas quietly awaited the follow up, watching the Archon as she squirmed. “And that’s how you ended up in my bed?” Harkas broke the silence, which caused Y’shtola to spin and face her, face flushed.  
“Y-you noticed then?” she stammered.  
“Well, it was hard not to, though you did well to sneak in. I thought I was a light sleeper, but I only really noticed when I woke up sometime later. How long you’d been there, I don’t know, but you were sound asleep.”  
“I should’ve known you would. I had hoped that I’d have been able to sneak out before you awoke, but then, I suppose I wasn’t in an ideal mindset for sneaking. But yes. My first instinct when I let go was…well, to be close to you. In my addled state, I took that very literally, much to my own embarrassment, and I apologise.” Y’shtola gave a slight bow in, unable to look Harkas in the eye, whose face now matched the archons in colour, cheeks a bright red, only a broad smile adorned her face.  
“You don’t need to apologise. At first I thought you were some critter sneaking into my bed and I was at the ready to stab you, that much is true. But when I saw you, it took me a while to react. And…well I don’t think I’ve ever felt happier. I might’ve held you close while I tried to drift off, so I’m not completely innocent, either.” Harkas let out a small chuckle, unable to contain herself much longer.  
“I’m well aware. After all, this is all your doing.” Y’shtola smirked as she rebutted. “You, your confession, your self-depreciation. All serving to disrupt my thoughts.”. In response, Harkas feigned offense, pulling back a shoulder and holding a hand over her open mouth.  
“You know full well I would never purposefully do anything to harm you. But that is what instinct does. Why would you lower yourself to my level?”  
“Because there was no lowering involved!” Y’shtolas snapped back considerably more fiery than expected, and Harkas was taken somewhat aback. “You’re no lesser than myself simply because you’re better at the combat than the diplomacy! Without you, we’d have nothing to work with! Without you, us “chisels” would have nothing to create! We owe you everything!” she was nearly shouting at this point, leant back slightly, caught completely off guard. It took a moment until either side acted. Y’shtola took a deep breath to regain her composure, before giving Harkas a stern look. “You may lack a certain diplomatic tact. But our line of work requires both sides. You are no lesser than any of the rest of us. But if it irks you so much, then I will teach you. Something tells me we’ll have plenty of time together anyway.”

It took a considerable time for Harkas to realise the meaning behind her words, but when she did, her eyes went wide. Staring up at the archon, she had no words to respond with, though she did make several noises in an attempt. Eventually, she did calm herself enough to form a sentence.  
“You…you mean you…but…why?”  
“Do I need a reason to follow my feelings? Do I have to deny myself simple pleasures?” Y’shtolas’ response was sharp, and it took Harkas another moment to form any answer.  
“No…but what if you become a target? What if someone uses you to get to one of the mighty warriors of light?” genuine concern lined the warriors meek voice.  
“I’m not defenceless, Harkas. I can look after myself.”  
“But when we face threats like Ascians…the Garlean empire…”  
“Then it’s a good job I have you to protect me. Besides. It’s not like things would be different otherwise. Should I become a target, you’d still come crashing to the rescue.”  
“I…I would, yes. But that doesn’t mean you won’t become a bigger target if someone finds out.”

Y’shtola sighed, pondering her response.  
“Harkas, close your eyes for a moment.” It was more a demand than a request, though Harkas looked confused.  
“What? Why?”  
“Because I asked.”  
“But I-“ Harkas tried to inquire, but was cut off.  
“Harkas, do you trust me?” Y’shtolas’ voice was stern, though Harkas’ response was none slower for it.  
“You know full well I do.”  
“Then close your eyes.” Once more she asked, only softer this time. Harkas stared for just a second, clearly unsure of her plan, but relented. Her eyes shut, and she was left in darkness, carefully listening for the next step.  
“Okay, they’re shut. What now?” she asked, waiting for the next request. Seconds passed in silence, and Harkas was about to ask again, when she felt something soft and warm press against her lips, a pair of hands on her shoulders, holding her steady, and her eyes snapped open. All she could see was the tan of Y’shtolas’ face and stray strands of her snowy hair hanging between the two of them, and she was at a complete loss. What was happening went against all her expectations, yet it was all she had dreamed of for the longest time.

As sudden as it had started, it was over. Y’shtola pulled away, taking a deep breath as her eyes opened, leaving Harkas stunned, a deep red spread across her whole face.  
“Even if we have to keep this a secret from everyone, I’m willing to take the risk. If you are, that is.” She spoke, but it did little to bring Harkas from her stupor, who simply nodded slightly. “Is that a yes, Harkas?” she asked, leaning in with a smirk forming. Harkas’ hand drifted up, gently tracing her lips as she gave a whispered response.  
“Y-yes…I…I’d like that.”. Her response only served to broaden the Archons’ smile.  
“I knew you would.” She replied, gently placing a hand on the warriors’ shoulder and shaking her. Eventually, Harkas was roused from her daze and she shook her head in an attempt to clear her head.  
“Feeling better?” Y’shtola teased, clearly enjoying the effect she had on the warrior.  
“Yeah. Not going to lie, that caught me off guard. Does this mean that you…accept my feelings?”. There was obvious happiness in Harkas’ voice, though still tinged with trepidation, and Y’shtola couldn’t help but smile.  
“Yes, Harkas. It does. And if you wish to keep it a secret for the time being, then I’ll oblige. For you. Maybe I’ll depart on an expedition. Maybe I’ll need a bodyguard. If not, then we’ll just make do, sneak away for some time alone together.”  
“Sneaking away from your tasks? That doesn’t sound like you.” Harkas joked.  
“Well this is the me you’ve helped reveal. The me that only you will see.” The archons’ response was just as jesting. Rising from the stool, Harkas moved in closer to Y’shtola, dropping to a knee so their heads were roughly level and tentatively extended her arms, wrapping them around the Miqo’te, who let out a quiet giggle and mimicked the movements, and together they shared their first embrace. A minute passed before either broke the silence, Harkas nearly whispering into her ear.  
“So…should I be expecting more another guest in my bed, tonight?”. While Y’shtola couldn’t see it, she could picture Harkas’ smirk behind her.  
“Mayhap sometime in the future. Last night was an exception, a lapse in judgement that just happened to lead into something pleasant. Besides, wouldn’t you rather spread out these first experiences? You wouldn’t want to rush into anything, would you?”  
“That’s basically all I do, remember? You’ve always been the wiser one, so I’ll trust in your judgement. You know I’ll be looking forward to it, though.”. Both gave a quiet chuckle, before returning to simply enjoying each other’s touch. Eventually, Y’shtola began to pull away from Harkas, who reluctantly let her go, tracing her hands down the archons’ arms as they parted.  
“I suppose I ought to return to the Alphinaud and Lyse. As much as we’d both like, I can’t remain here all day, so I suppose I must bid you farewell for the time being.”. It was hard for Harkas to mask her disappointment, but she too had tasks she was required to attend to, though none as important as those her new partner had. As the archon made to leave, she paused as she passed Harkas, leaning in to plant a light kiss on the roegadyns’ cheek, bringing the colour straight back into them.  
“Until tonight, Harkas.” Her voice was sultry and Harkas couldn’t help but give her a cheesy grin.  
“I’ll be looking forward to it.” The warrior replied, and she watched as Y’shtola descended the stairs towards the base of the tower, remaining behind long enough to see the miqo’te emerge below and disappear into the city.  
Today had turned out far beyond expectations and for the first time since her sisters’ death, Harkas looked forward to the future. No longer alone, no longer pining.

**Author's Note:**

> This follows my more personal canon, rather than the route with Shirafina, which while nice, I struggle to picture beyond requested scenarios.


End file.

Where all the fields were smooth and clean, there was a large furrow leading from the outskirts of the forest nearby and along the pathway, it’s banks spattered with pine needles. It was clear to the Au’ra that someone had dragged a whole pine tree back to the house, and she knew that there was only one person that would’ve gone through all that effort, after all, that person had done it every other year when it approached the Starlight Festival. Settling her chocobo into the stables nearby and savouring the warmth inside, she stared out at the farmhouse that was now her home. It was a pleasant house, large enough to suit all her needs, including a mechanics workshop where she could practice her crafts and storage where they could store considerable amounts of food, mostly made of simple grey stone with some tasteful highlights made from a chalk-white slate. Wisps of grey smoke floated from the chimney, so at least it would be warm inside and as the duo of Chocobos chirped her goodbye, Shirafina started to push through the snow, which reached up to her knees, soaking her legs. Thankfully, the trail the tree had left allowed her to continue much more easily once she’d reached it, though once she reached the covered porch and climbed the steps, she could see scattered snow where the tree had passed, and she dreaded the mess she might find inside.  
Pushing the door open with a creak, she slipped inside, quickly closing it behind her. Hanging up her pistol on the weapons rack just inside the entryway, she threw her hood back, letting her silver-blonde hair flow free as she removed her thick, red coat, before slipping off her boots, peeling off her soaked socks before sliding into some soft, fluffy slippers. When she made her way into the living room, she saw just what her wife had created. A trail of water, which was once snow, lead through the center of the room and up to a pine tree which stood proudly in the corner, slivers of green scattered beneath it. A warm, inviting fire was dancing in the fireplace, a large iron cauldron hanging above it giving off a fruity smelling vapor, and several feet away, on her knees, hunched over a small wooden table surrounded by tools and metal scraps, was her wife, Harkas, loosely wrapped in a ash coloured tunic, tinkering away at something.  
“I see you’ve already pulled a tree through our house, Harkas.” Shirafina said with a sigh. “You could’ve at least cleaned up the water, could you?”. Craning her neck round, Harkas smiled softly.  
“Sorry. I got distracted. How was the meeting?” she asked, before turning back to her work, with a clinking as metal softly hit metal.  
“It could’ve gone better, but we got it in the end. My father’s sorting out the details though, I was just needed for the proposal.” Shirafina replied as she made her way towards the couch, settling down as near to the fire as she could and holding her hands out to allow them to warm. “What’re you doing?”. There was a few more hits before Harkas turned to respond, holding up a small figure in a silver dress, mythril hair draped behind its head, tiny, sparkling diamond eyes and sapphire horns, adorned with intricately crafted silken wings.  
“The angel must’ve gotten broken when we moved all the stuff in, so I…improved it. What do you think?”. Despite her impressive stature, Harkas almost sounded solemn as she presented her work.  
“It’s a sweet tribute to your sister.” Shirafina answered, a gentle, warm smile appearing on her face.  
“It’s that obvious, is it? I guess it means I did a decent job of it, at least.” Harkas beamed.  
“It was always going to be her. But it’s nice to think she’s watching over us.”  
Slowly Harkas rose to her feet and stretching her arms up with a groan, the Xaela angel glinting in the firelight. Towering over Shirafina, her hands brushed against the ceiling, before she strode over to the tree that stood nearby, easily reaching the tip to display her handiwork, the miniature Reisui gazing across the room. Taking a moment to admire her handiwork before joining her wife on the couch, Harkas curled her arm around her much smaller partners shoulder, pulling her in close. Together, they shared a long minute of silence, just savouring the time alone, and it would’ve lasted much longer, had they not been interrupted by a banging on the front door. The couple shot each other a confused look. They were a fair distance away from any village, much too far for any simple visits. Both rose to their feet, Shirafina barely half the height of her wife, as they went to investigate, Harkas standing just behind Shirafina as she opened the door.  
Outside, stood a Hyur, decked in a mixture of furs, leather and metal plates, a longsword hanging at his hip and a shield strapped to his left hand. Behind him stood two more men in the same attire, one Roegadyn with an axe, the other a miqo’te with a spear, and beyond them, off the porch stood another half-dozen folk, both male and female of various races, all similarly dressed, a variety of weapons at the ready, and Harkas’ shoulders dropped, crouching down to start donning her boots.  
“Yes?” Shirafina groaned, the discontent clear in her voice. “Can we help you?”. The three men closest laughed.  
“You can help yourself if you’re smart.” The spear wielder croaked in a husky voice. Shirafina’s eyes narrowed as she clicked her fingers behind the door, signalling Harkas to pass her pistol, who pulled the straps on her boots tight, before rising up and lifting the holstered gun off the rack, handing it to her wife, and hefting the battle-axe that housed the Anima spirit from it’s resting place just beside where the pistol hung, all hidden behind the front door.  
“What my companion means to say” the sword bearer started, sounding more like a frog than a man, “is that you ought to know that these lands are owned by our boss, you see? There’s lots of dangerous folk about, you know, and well, our boss is kind enough to help provide some protection for you both.” He mouth curled into a devious smirk. “For a price, that is. You know how it is, nothing comes for free.” Rolling her eyes, Shirafina quickly scanned the folk further out. Most were armed with bows, a couple with staves, the rest with assorted melee weapons, though none of them looked that tough.  
“And if we don’t pay?” she asked, though neither she nor Harkas really cared about the answer.  
“Well, then who knows what’ll happen to you. These are dangerous times. Maybe your little farm here gets attacked. Maybe there’s some fires, animals and food taken. Maybe you get hurt. Who knows?” his voice taking on a more threatening tone, not that it’d help him. “And you know, little lady, all the folk around here pay for the bosses protection. So you might become a target quickly. Maybe even tonight. So, what do you say?” he finished, holding his hands up invitingly. Shirafina looked him up and down, before turning to her wife, who slowly nodded back to her.

“I think you don’t know who you’re talking to.” She replied, swiftly bringing up the gun until the barrel was an inch from his forehead and sending his body sprawling several feet, blood fountaining from the newly created hole, his companions barely having time to flinch before Harkas span around her wife, her boot meeting the Roegadyn mans chest, ejecting him through the banister that surrounded the porchway and crunching into the snow that unfortunately cushioned his fall. As quickly as he could, the miqo’te drew his spear, only for Harkas’ axe to cleave through the shaft, it’s shimmering, glass like flame gliding through it like it was butter, and he soon found himself hanging, Harkas’ hand clenched around his neck. As her grip tightened, he frantically grabbed at her arm in a desperate attempt to free himself, until with a snap, his body went limp, and he was thrown aside, his body crumpling as it hit the floor.  
“Let’s make this quick, Harkas.” Shirafina said as she joined her wife on the porch. “It’s cold out here, so I really don’t want to be out here any longer than I have to be.”  
“Gotcha. You’ve got the archers, I’ll deal with the ones who get close.” Harkas replied as she strode over the Hyurs body and down the steps into the snow. Grunting as he rose, the Roegadyn bandit was already barking orders, bringing his axe to bear.  
“Come on you bastards! Let’s show them not to mess with the BearClaws! They’ll make fine prizes for the boss!” Arrows were knocked and bows drawn with a groan, The spellcasters began their chants as aether swirled around them and a battlecry was loosed as the bandits with melee weapons charged in, deep furrows left in the snow behind them. Arrows flew overhead, hitting wooden beams with a thud around Shirafina, who brought her pistol up and with the repeated crack of gunfire, sent a hail of bullets at the bandits backline. Some screamed as metal tore through their flesh, writhing on the floor, hidden under the piled-up snow, others just fell silently, their bodies ragged.  
Amidst the sound of gunshots, there were clangs of metal striking metal as the two Roegadyns clashed, the bandit giving a frenzied assault only for each swing be batted aside by Harkas, her aetherial axe blade gleaming in the snow. His next swing was stopped by the hilt of Harkas’ axe jamming into his right elbow, the sudden stop causing the axe to slip out of his left hand, and with a twist, Harkas yanked his right arm downwards, wrenching his axe out of his grip before slamming her forehead into his face, knocking him to the floor with a scream of pain. A fireball flared to life atop the staff of the thaumaturge as he hurled it towards Harkas. Slamming a fresh clip into her gun, Shirafina aimed high, blasting shot after shot into the flame, each hit tearing slivers of flame until it withered and faded. The next shot struck the thaumaturge in the shoulder as he channelled his next spell, sending him spinning to the floor, the conjurer already rushing to his side to aid him, but sliding on the compacted snow underfoot and disappearing from view.  
Grasping the hilt of the stolen axe with one hand, Harkas twisted to face the oncoming fighters, bringing her arm round high before letting it fly free, sending it spinning through the air straight into the chest of the closest swordsman who was thrown backwards. His remaining compatriots charged past his body, winding up their swings as they neared the warrior, and there was a crash as all three overhead swings collided with the metal haft of Harkas’ axe. There was a moment of struggle, all three pushing with all their strength in an attempt to overpower the warrior, but with a shout Harkas pushed forwards, throwing the swordsmen off balance before her axe came down, shattering the skull of the rightmost, before wrenching it left, scattering bone and brain across the snow, and into the side of the next bandit too quickly for him to bring his shield down. He screamed before his torso snapped, his upper body sent toppling in the opposite direction to his legs, as the axe continued on it’s swing. The last swordsman had managed to get his shield into position and braced himself, but as the axe stuck his shield he felt his arm break, and the shield crack as he was thrown loose, the shield stuck to the axe embedded within it. He tried to scramble away, terrified, but a foot came down on his ankle, pinning him in place before his suffering was ended as the second axe head cut through his neck.  
As quickly as it had started, the fight was over with a clear victor, and as the Roegadyn bandit lying on his back tried to rise and flee, the towering form of Harkas appeared above him, and he felt the weight of her foot on his chest push him down. Seconds later, Shirafina appeared at the top of his vision, staring down at him with a scowl.  
“We’re going to give you a choice.” She growled.  
“You can either go back to your boss, tell him to leave this farm, the villages, everything around here, alone.” Harkas snarled, pushing down on him harder to emphasize the her point. “That he’ll deal with us if he doesn’t.”. The Bandit stared up at the two, nearly frozen with fear, before stammering a reply.  
“T-the boss won’t listen. He-he’ll throw more at you. He’ll come to crush you.” He sounded like he was trying to reassure himself more than threaten them.  
“Second choice it is then.” Shirafina sighed. The bandit quickly glanced between them, shaking. First at Shirafina, then at Harkas, and as he looked back to the Au Ra, he found himself looking down the barrel of her gun. Before he could even scream, he was silenced with a bang. Lifting her foot from the body, Harkas turned to view the battlefield.  
“You heard that too, conjurer. We know you’re out there, hiding in the snow. Are you going to deliver the message, or are we going to have to deal with you, as well?” she bellowed. Quickly, the conjurer jumped up from his snowtrench, giving a salute.  
“I’ll do it! Don’t kill me!” he shouted, before spinning and running for the gate as fast as the snow would let him. Watching him go for a moment, Harkas turned to her wife, shrugging.  
“And that deals with that for now.”  
“You know we’re going to have to deal with them again, right?” Shirafina asked. “Their boss won’t move on.”  
“Then we’ll just deal with him when he shows his head. It’s all you need to see, isn’t it?” she chuckled, imitating a gun with her finger, axe resting on her shoulder. “But anyway, you should head inside. It’s freezing out here and you never got much of a chance to warm up since you got back. I’ll deal with the cleanup.” She finished, looking out at the scarlet stained snow. Shirafina simply smiled and nodded, giving her wife a hug before returning inside.  
“Guess I’ll get the bonfire going.” Harkas sighed, before trudging through the snow towards the firewood shed.  
It was an hour later when the door clattered open and Harkas returned. Tapping the tip of her boots on the floor outside to shake any clinging snow loose before heading in, hanging her axe on the rack before removing her boots. Inside, Shirafina was sat where she had before, on the couch a few feet from the fire, enthralled in the pages of a book. It was only when Harkas’ footsteps drew closer that her attention was pulled away, greeting her with a soft smile, which would have been charming to everyone had it not been spattered with flecks of blood.  
“Bodies should be gone soon. Except the bones, but bonemeal is good for plants, at least.” Harkas broke the silence, matching her smile. “I’m surprised you’ve not cleaned yourself up though, it seems. You’ve got spots of blood all over yourself.” She said, almost teasingly.  
“You’re one to talk. Have you looked at yourself?” Shirafina responded, feigning offense, her hand brought to her chest, and Harkas realised just how much of a mess she was. She’d been at the frontlines of the fight cleaving away, spreading gore over everything within several feet and on top of that, she’d been moving the bodies as well. The result was her looking like she’d just come out of a war, her tunic dyed a deep crimson, her face, neck and hands coated in viscera.  
“Alright, point taken. We could both used a bath.” Harkas chuckled. “I’ll go draw one for us.”. Quickly bending down to give her wife a quick peck on the forehead, she span on her heel and left, disappearing through the doorway, and Shirafina returned to her book.  
It wasn’t much longer until Harkas reappeared, leaning through the doorway and calling out.  
“It’s all sorted. Water’s nice and hot.”. She had a strange grin on her face, though Shirafina either didn’t notice, or chose not to bother asking, slipping her bookmark in between the pages and laying the book down on the table before rising to her feet and moving to join her wife. As she drew near, a sudden flash of green caught her eye up above, and she noticed a sprig of leaves hanging just below the rim of the frame.  
“And what’s that?” she asked, her tone almost accusatory, her gaze shifting back down to her wife.  
Harkas spent a moment faking confusion, before pretending to notice the leaves.  
“Oh, look at that. Mistletoe.” Her voice full of false surprise. “Did you know they say that if someone refuses a kiss underneath mistletoe, it’s supposed to bring terrible luck?” she asked, the smirk returning to her face. With that, Harkas’ plan clicked within Shirafinas mind, the result being her eyes rolling almost involuntarily.  
“Harkas, we’re married. I don’t know what you were thinking with this.” She replied matter-of-factly and Harkas’ smile quickly disappeared, her shoulders drooping ever so slightly. But as she opened her mouth to respond, Shirafina jumped, hooking a hand over each of Harkas’ shoulders and pulling her down, so that their faces were almost level, before quickly wrapping her slender arms around her spouses neck and pulling her in for a long, passionate kiss. She even felt her wife melt in her arms, just briefly, before Harkas’ arms curled around her body, pulling them together and soon Shirafina felt her feet leave the floor as Harkas rose to her full height, bringing her wife with her. There Shirafina’s legs dangled several feet from the ground, the two still entwined and joined at the lips, enjoying each other’s touch. Moments later, Shirafina pulled back, much to the obvious disappointment of Harkas, and gently ran her hand down her lovers face.  
“You don’t need to pull little stunts like that if you want a kiss.” She whispered, planting another quick kiss on her wife’s lips for emphasis. “Now come on, we don’t want the bath to get cold, do we?”. Harkas said nothing, simply giving a broad smile and shaking her head and sliding one of her arms down Shirafina’s back and thighs, hooking them under her knees, and carried her away like the princess she was.


End file.

“She’s alive, at least.” He grunted, sitting himself beside them. “We all made it out, thankfully. God knows how, though. What happened in there?”. The Elezen groaned, lifting himself onto one arm while his other arm reach back, unlatching the greatsword from his back and letting it clatter to the floor.  
“My thoughts are that we drew far too much ire from the residents of those caverns. Apparently one of us decided to throw away caution and garnered the attention of far too many of the foul beings down there.” His grumbling was pained and he craned his neck to view their fourth member scrabbling up the shore, his soaked robes sagging from his body and the fur on his tail matted, his staff thrown several feet ahead of him. “Damn bastard almost got us killed! What were you thinking, Rhigi?!” he shouted, his free arm now clutching his chest. The miqo’te scowled back, baring his fangs.  
“I did nothing of the sort! Those fiends were on their way with or without my action!” his retort was loud, but half-hearted and unconvincing. “Besides, where were you during all that? You’re meant to be the one drawing their attention away so Solmund and I can do our jobs! Yet the minute Tufufu started chanting, she was beaten down before she could finish!”.  
“Ah yes, because I can be everywhere at once.” Daseauxs’ words were dripping with sarcasm, which only served to annoy F’Rhigi further. Soon, the two were bellowing insults at each other, their voices carrying out into the quiet plateaus. As the two argued, Solmund tended to the downed plainsfolk, who slowly began to stir, moaning quietly as she regained consciousness.

Gradually sitting herself up, supported by the ninja beside her, she tried to gain her bearings, grimacing in pain and bringing her hands to her ears.  
“Will the two of you just be quiet?!” she screamed, and the two bickerers silenced themselves, though they still glared at each other. Her hands moved from her ears, rubbing her temples as she groaned. “That’s better. My head’s already killing me and I don’t need you two making it worse. Now, we’re all alive, and I can fix any damage you’ve taken later. But please, let’s get back to Ala Mhigo first. Okay?” she calmly said, trying her best to calm her companions, at least for the time being. Reluctantly, the two agreed to co-operate again and they slowly lifted themselves to their feet, trudging back towards the sandstone walls in the distance. Tempers still flared as blame was shifted, most fingers pointed towards the Black Mage, but for the most part the foursome trekked quietly, trying to avoid any further ire. Eventually, F’Rhigi piped up, snapping out of some sort of deep thought that had plagued him during the silence.   
“Y’know, it’s going to sound really cheesy, but after seeing how quickly that turned sour, it made me realise how quickly our end might come, and well, there’s a lot of things I’ve wanted to do that I haven’t had the chance to.” Reaching his arms up behind his head, he leaned back just a little, staring up at the sky and the gradually setting sun. Daseaux rolled his eyes, shrugging.  
“Let me guess. You’re going to talk about how you’re going to go back and become the Nunh again? Or maybe about your love for the Archon Y’shtola? Or are you going to surprise us with something new this time?”. F’Rhigi laughed, a broad smile spreading across his face.  
“Both. I figure that it might finally be time to tell the beautiful Archon how I feel, and with her at my side I could take on F’panch Nunh. We could rule a whole tribe together. Start a family.” This time it was Solmunds’ turn to roll his eyes.  
“You realise she’d never give up working with the Scions, don’t you? She’s far too focussed on saving the world, I doubt she’d pay romance any attention, Let alone your impure passions.”. The miqo’te snorted his disdain at the comment.  
“There’s nothing impure about my love for her. The fact that she’s incredibly beautiful and our children would be both mighty and fair is nothing to scoff at.” Bringing a fist to his mouth to muffle his words, he added a mumbled. “and neither would making them.” Before his fist revealed a smirk. “But either way, I’ve decided that once we return to the Scions, I’m going to let her know, and if all goes well…well, that’s for me to know.” His sly grin said all the others wanted to know, and they left his point alone, though it didn’t stop him rattling on further, exhausting the many ways he felt himself a perfect match for the Archon.

Back in the palace of Ala Mhigo, Harkas found herself amid the Royal Menagerie, the many flower gardens bathed a deep orange in the light of the setting sun. Since her accidental confession barely a week ago, and the start of her relationship with Y’shtola the days had seemed to float by. Most days the pair got only a short time alone, a chance meeting in the halls or a brief period at night when both had earned their respite after the multitude of tasks they were given, and even that was used to teach Harkas the higher arts such as diplomacy. Hardly enough time for a budding romance, Harkas felt, but such was the life of liberators now left to restructure a nation.  
What it meant was that times like this were all the more precious. Sat upon a rough spun blanket spread across the stone between two of the flowerbeds, she watched the sun setting over the mountaintops, before her gaze drifted down at the white haired miqo’te whose head rested in her lap. This had been the first real opportunity the two had had to be together in any sense of romance. Luck had it that the Scions work had finished early today, Alphinaud, Lyse and Raubahn requiring time to prepare the next step in their plans leaving Y’shtola with some free time, and Harkas having finished her tasks encountered the Archon in the halls, suggested simply watching the sunset together. It was a simple pleasure, but one of the first they had managed to share and the warrior was going to make the most of it, the archon sharing the sentiment. After they’d arrived, Harkas had set out the blanket and sat down her legs bend underneath her, leaning on one arm, expecting Y’shtola to simply sit beside her. Much to her surprise, the Archon opted to lay herself down, resting her head upon Harkas’ thighs and gazing up at the warrior with a sly grin, before gradually closing her eyes. 

Slowly, Harkas lifted a hand and gently brushed it through the miqo’tes silken hair causing Y’shtola to let out a contented sigh, her eyes fluttering open.  
“I must admit, Harkas. I had doubts when I first agreed to this situation.” Her sultry voice was soothing to the warrior, who kept stroking her snowy locks.  
“I’d have be surprised if you didn’t.” she replied with a slight chuckle.  
“Yes, well, it’s hardly a common dilemma. But as things stand, here and now…I’m glad I did. It’s been far too long since I’ve experienced something like this. At least, with a partner…a romantic one.” It was the first time Harkas had seen Y’shtola struggle with her words, and it made her all the more endearing.  
“I can’t say I’ve done this much before, either. And as for with a…romantic partner…that number pretty much drops to zero. I just wish I’d had more time to prepare. I could’ve brought some food, some candles. We could’ve made this into a proper evening. But, I suppose that’s the drawback with secrecy.” Harkas’ shoulders sagged and her smiled weakened somewhat. “Just have to play with what time we can get rather than plan anything, huh?”  
“It’s our compromise, yes. But that just makes the time we get all the more special, does it not?” the archons’ voice was like a soft melody in Harkas’ ear as the Miqo’tes hand reached up, the back of her fingers brushing over the warriors cheek, bringing back her smile before she returned the gesture, her considerably larger thumb tracing over the archons whisker-like facial markings.

What was a dream come true for Harkas was a nightmare for F’Rhigi, who watched unnoticed from the stairway that lead up into the menagerie. The sun had set by the time he and his companions reached the palace and as fortune would have it, he’d quickly run into Alisae, who’d told him in which direction Y’shtola had left. Tracing her steps lead him to one of the resistance guards who’d caught a glimpse of her heading towards the Royal Menagerie with one of the other scions, a towering woman as he’d described her, and with that he’d sped towards the stairs that lead to the rooftop gardens that made up the menagerie. What he saw had made his heart sink in his chest.   
The archon Y’shtola wrapped in the arms of the hulking beast he knew as one of his fellow warriors of light, who sat on the far side of the plaza, the archon in her lap, both too enraptured to even notice him. He could feel the fire burning in his chest, the anger and hate boiling up, and as the moon began to peer over the mountains, illuminating the gardens in a silver light, he saw Y’shtola turn her head. He saw them draw closer, ilm by ilm. And then he saw the kiss, and something inside of him snapped. His teeth clenched, his hands balled into fists that trembled with rage. For a brief moment he considered unleashing it, to channel that rage into his black magic. But not here, not while Y’shtola was nearby. No, this had to be done more carefully. He would remove the hulking obstruction from his path, and when he did, there would be nothing between him and his love. His hand reached back, curling around his staff and bringing it to bare, before he disappeared back into the palace halls and the orange lamplight that lit them. First he’d need some less conspicuous robes.

All in all, Harkas had gotten just over two hours alone with Y’shtola in the menagerie before the archon had to excuse herself and return to her duties. The time together had done her mood wonders, the warrior was practically gliding through the torchlit hallways, a warm smile plastered upon her face. She paid the passing resistance guards little mind, who simply watched her pass by, one offering a salute as she did so, recognising one of the liberators of Ala Mhigo, Nor did she pay much mind to the darkness that filled the sandstone corridors near her room. Most likely the torches had burned out and none of guards had made the time to replace them. Not a big problem, all things considered, just an inconvenience as the moonlight through the window behind her lit just enough for her to make her way to her door.


	2. Chapter 2

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> In which a plan is enacted.

From the shadows F’Rhigi watched as the giant form of Harkas fumbled with the door. It was a simple matter to lock her out of her own room, and her rummaging through her coat provided ample opportunity to spring his trap. He began his chanting, as hushed as he could manage, and fragments of arcane ice began to manifest around the head of his staff, though this was not his typical staff. Carved from antelope horns native to Gyr Abania and adorned with a simple garnet gemstone, it was a longshot from his bejewelled sceptre, but it would make do, much like his robes. No silken garments, just the rough green cotton and beige leathers that made up the uniforms of the Ala Mhigan resistance fighters. Such a disguise would serve aptly, just another masked face in amongst hundreds of others. And now his chant had reached it’s climax, ice spiralling around his staff and with a flick of his wrist, he pointed it at the warrior.

She didn’t remember locking the door to the room she and Y’shtola shared, but as the door rattled and refused to open, she figured the archon must have done so sometime earlier. As she began rifling through her pockets she briefly considered just busting it open, though she doubted Y’shtola would appreciate her actions. It took her a moment to finally find the small brass key, and as she twisted it in lock, she felt a sudden chill. Around her boots, ice sprouted from the ground, icicles bursting forth and twisting over her feet anchoring her in place. Quickly she scanned her surroundings, searching for her attacker, and in the darkness, just peering around the corner to her right, she saw the hooded figure. He looked just like a member of the Ala Mhigan resistance, though his uniform didn’t seem to fit him as well as others, and she spotted a writhing tail spouting from his behind. Her concern wasn’t for the ill fitting garb, however, as it was for the swirling embers around him, which coalesced into a flaming orb that he hurled at her. She braced herself as best she could, but rooted to the spot, she bore the brunt of it in her flank. The impact knocked the air out of her lungs, and in seconds she was engulfed in searing flames that bit at her flesh, burning away at the collar of her shirt and charring her leather coat. The heat even stifled her pained howl, preventing her drawing the air to scream, but there was still a positive. The intense heat had flash-melted the ice that bound her, and she threw herself towards her attacker.

His plan was working flawlessly. The ice had rooted her in place, and his fire was a direct hit. He took a brief moment to revel in sadistic glee, even someone as tough as Harkas would suffer in that, and how she deserved it. She had dared to snatch his happiness right from his hands, and now she’d pay the price for it. She would die, here and now. Y’shtola would require some consoling, and he’d be right there for her, and soon, she would forget the brute, she would fall for him. He was snapped from his fantasy by shouting as a flame traced figure stumbled from the pillar of fire. Her pain was obvious in her voice and he smirked as she stumbled towards his. But soon her unsteady steps gained form, she began striding towards him, pained grunts turning into a growl and he began his next incantation.

Every nerve in her body was screaming in pain, but her clenched jaw prevented any noise beyond grunting. It took her a few steps to recover, but she was soon advancing on the ambusher as he began his next cast, drawing her axe from her back and hefting it in front. Channelling all her anger into her legs, she lunged at him, travelling the 20 yalms between them in the blink of an eye, slamming the hilt into his gut. Instantly, the gathering aether around him dissipated as his spell was interrupted and his body sent reeling several feet with a groan of pain. Up close his magic posed significantly less of a threat, he couldn’t channel the aether he needed with her onslaught keeping him occupied. That’s what she thought, at least, Right up until she saw a light encircle him, a sudden influx of aether surging around him, and before she could react, a violet bolt of lightning arced from his staff, tearing into her left arm and convulsing through her entire body. 

F’Rhigi hadn’t anticipated the warrior to recuperate this quickly, nor had he had much of an opportunity to observe her in combat previously, so when the brute had crossed the distance between them in a fraction of a second, he had no reaction, the metal haft of her axe striking him in the gut, driving him back several paces gasping for air. He couldn’t let her press the attack, and so he drew upon the techniques he learnt during his training as a thaumaturge, the aether he needed to hurl his spells forming instantly around him, and with a thought he turned it into crackling electricity that flashed through the air between them, vanishing into her flesh and causing her to spasm for a split second. He had the upper hand now, and while he wanted to gloat he only allowed himself a twisted chuckle as he drew back his staff preparing his next spell, and he held the advantage for all of several seconds. He crouched low, gathering more fire-aspected aether in his staff, when he saw her arm wrench sideways, and he realised his assumption of a safe distance was short, her long arms coupled with the full length of her axes haft gave her the reach she needed. He tried to dodge it, tried to throw himself to the ground but he was too slow, and with a heavy crack, the flat of the axe struck the side of his head, knocking him to the floor.

The spasming of her muscles abated just long enough for Harkas to get a solid swing in, and while her instinct was to just kill him, there was a strong chance that the scions would want to question her attacker. It wasn’t like she couldn’t just kill him later anyways, so she swung with the flat of her axe, connecting with his temple and sending him sprawling to the ground. Not wasting a moment, she stepped forward, bringing a hand down to grab his neck and slammed his face into the stone with a dull thud as he lost consciousness.

The hallway was plunged into silence once more and in the distance Harkas could hear the hurried thumping of boots approaching to investigate the disturbance. She let out a pained sigh and slumped against the wall. The left side of her face and her arm felt as though they were pierced by a multitude of daggers, her coat seemed to have been fused to her skin and there was a pungent smell of burnt hair permeating the area. Sliding down the wall until she hit the floor, she waited for whoever was approaching, loosely gripping her axe in case these were allies of this ambusher. Moments later, a band of figures rounded the corner. Two resistance fighters came first, scimitars drawn and at the ready, a torch burning in their other hand, as they made to secure the area. Close behind them was the tall, sleek form Harkas recognised as Daseaux, his silvered armour glinting in the moonlight, his greatsword held at his side. Beside him and struggling somewhat to keep stride was the small figure of Tufufu, staff raised as she assessed the situation and prepared to mend any injured, and trailing a few fulms back came Lyse, also a torch in hand, and Y’shtola. Neither had weapons drawn, but were ready to do so should they be needed. What they saw was what appeared to be an unconscious Ala Mhigan resistance member, blood starting to pool underneath his head, beside a hunched, still smoking warrior whose axe now slid from her fingers with a light clatter as her head slumped.

The two soldiers moved to tend to their similarly clad compatriot with Tufufu in tow, while Daseaux, Lyse and Y’shtola made for Harkas. Dropping to one knee, the Elezen gently placed his hand on the less damaged of Harkas shoulders, lifting the visor of his helm.  
“Harkas!” he gave the Roegadyn a soft shake causing her to lift her head and glace up at him. She was grimacing, but looked relieved to see her allies. “What happened here? Are you alright?”. Harkas let out a couple of wheezy coughs before pointing at the unconscious miqo’te.  
“Damn bastard tried to torch me. Waited for me to try my door before flinging his magical crap at me. No idea who he is, or how long he was waiting.”. She placed a hand on her knee and used it to gradually lift herself up, grunting with the exertion before the dark knight offered her a hand, which she gladly took.  
“Looks like you took care of him though.” Lyse chimed in as she bounced her way between Harkas and her attacker. “You think he was waiting for you?”  
“It’s what it looks like. Trapped me in place and everything. Doesn’t seem like something spur of the moment. But I intend to ask him.” The warrior still leant on the wall for support and her voice did little to hide her pain. The two soldiers had rolled the mystery miqo’te over, and after hearing Harkas’ story now made to restrain him, binding his hands behind his back. Once he was secured, Tufufu moved in, a soft light forming around her hands that began to pass to the ambusher. As the lalafell worked to rouse the miqo’te, Y’shtola circled around Daseaux who had stooped to lift Harkas’ axe, masking her concern with a serious face.   
“How fare you, Harkas?” her eyes darted over the various afflictions Harkas now had. The left sleeve of her coat had virtually melted, what fabric of her shirt was exposed had been burnt away, the skin on her arm and face was blistered and warped, turned a raw red with patches of charred black, steaks of deep crimson trailing from them and her hair had burnt away, a considerable portion of her hair on the left side of her head reduced to a smouldering mess and an eyebrow had been burned completely away. Despite all this, Harkas forced a smile as she hefted the axe proffered by the Elezen, hooking it back into place on her back.  
“I’ve been better.” She grunted through gritted teeth. “But I’ve had worse…I think.”. Her response elicited a relieved smirk from the archon, though it faded quickly.  
“Well, no matter. We should get you tended to afore long. No doubt you seek some succor.” Y’shtolas’ response was soft, though her eyes kept darting to the warriors wounds as she offered a shoulder for support, which was gladly taken.  
“Yeah…but first, I want to find out who this little bastard is.” Harkas’ expression turned stern as she glared down at the attacker. No doubt he’d awaken soon with Tufufu’s healing hands, and then they could get some information.

The light had passed over the attackers body, and he began to show signs of consciousness. A twitch, followed by a pained groan as he became aware of his splitting headache. His hands strained against his bonds as he instinctively tried to rub his head and they finally got a clearer look at him. He was indeed wearing standard Ala Mhigan resistance clothing, complete with hood and facewrap, but two fuzzy, brown feline ears poked from the hood, and a tail from his rear. It told them nothing beyond him being a miqo’te, but as he lifted his head he realised his situation. He was flanked on each side by two soldiers, a Tufufu had taken a step back, but still remained nearly a fulm away, and a pace behind her stood Daseaux, who gleamed in the light giving him an almost angelic appearance, were it not for the greatsword held at the ready. Beside him stood Lyse, the moonlight giving her blonde hair a silver shine, who looked ready to beat some answers out of their prisoner, and then his eyes continued along. 

And then he saw her, several fulms behind the others, glistening in the pale moonlight like a heavenly maiden and his breath caught in his throat. But attached to her was Harkas. Not just attached, Y’shtola was supporting her, and he felt the bile rise from his gut.  
“TRAITOR!” he bellowed, catching his captors off guard. “BACKSTABBER!”. Everyone looked confused as the soldiers hooked their hands under his shoulders and hoisted him to his feet. He took in another sharp breath and prepared to shout again, before Lyse took a step forward.  
“Be quiet!”. She didn’t shout, but made her demand poignant. “Now, are you going to tell us why you attacked Harkas or are we going to have to force it out of you?”. She received a glare in response and Daseaux took a step forward, ready to give some incentive when he spoke up again.  
“I just told you why. Traitors deserve nothing more.” His words were filled with venom as he turned his scorned look to the warrior.  
“Harkas is no traitor.” Daseaux responded, his hand seizing the miqo’tes throat. “She’s done more for your resistance than you ever could.” He shifted his hand so that it forced the attacker to look up at him, and it only took a second for the Elezen to notice something familiar, and his expression shifted from angered to confused. Immediately the miqo’te knew Daseaux recognised him, but hadn’t identified him and he tried to shake himself free of the grip, but that only prompted the Dark Knight to tighten his grasp, his other hand slowly rose up and pulled the facemask away, and if his face didn’t give away his shock, his voice did as his hand pulled away.  
“Rhigi?!”

Rhigi snarled, his secret revealed to his captors who reacted with a mix of surprise and anger.   
“Not the resistance. She’s betrayed me.” His words were sharp and pointed towards Scions and Warriors of light both. Lyse and Y’shtola exchanged glances, before both turned to the unsteady Harkas, who looked equally perplexed.  
“I have done nothing to you.” The warrior snapped back. “You’re the only traitor here.”  
“You think I don’t know?” F’Rhigis voice dropped to a low growl, wishing his words could kill. “I saw you. You took what I desired most. Claimed it so I never could.” His words caused the gathered to shift glances, making the warrior the centre of attention.  
“I have no idea what you’re talking about. Did I cause some brain damage or something when I beat you? Or are you just trying to paint me as the villain here?” Harkas’ words lacked the harsh tone of her former compatriot, but none of the force. Lyse took another step towards the Black Mage, clearly curious as she examined the warrior, before she turned to him.  
“And what exactly did she take?”

It was a moment before F’Rhigi shifted his gaze to respond.  
“I saw her. Earlier this evening, as the sun set.” His tone had softened, just a fraction. “In the Royal Menagerie.”. Both Harkas and Y’shtola immediately realised what he was referring to, the warriors eyes went wide as she glanced down at the archon under her arm, whose face turned stern. “I saw her. And she wasn’t alone, oh, no she wasn’t.” his head turned and his eyes fixed upon the white haired miqo’te. His silence prompted the others to follow his gaze, until all eyes were upon her.  
“So, you saw Harkas and Y’shtola? That’s it?” Lyse chimed in, glancing back at F’Rhigi.  
“Oh, no. I saw more.” He snarled. Harkas wanted to jump in, to shut him up, but she had no words with which to interject that wouldn’t add suspicion. “I saw the two of them. And I saw the kiss. I saw her take what I have yearned for years.” The revelation caused a number of reactions. Both Lyse and Tufufu let out a gasp. Daseaux managed to mask the brunt of his surprise, but he still found himself staring at the two. Harkas looked horrified, one of her biggest secrets had just been forcibly exposed, though if the statement Y’shtola statement caused any distress, she didn’t show it, maintaining her stony gaze. F’Rhigi matched it, glaring back at her.  
“Do you deny it?” he spoke as if it were a challenge to the archon, whose brow furrowed even more.  
“I had wished it kept secret. But I do not deny it.” Her words matched her stern expression, and prompted Lyse to stare, open mouthed, at her.  
“Shtola, you’ve been getting that close with Harkas? I thought you had no interest in that sort of stuff.” She sounded genuinely astounded, but her look of surprise was quickly turning into a beaming smile, though her cheer wasn’t changing the Archons face.  
“Circumstances can change. But that is inconsequential.” Y’shtola lifted a hand, pointing at F’Rhigi. “And that is your reason for this attack?”. The Thaumaturges face twisted into a grim smile.  
“For years I have worked, no, strived to make myself into someone worthy of your interest. Weeks upon weeks of constant study just to match up to you. Throwing my life into conflict after conflict as my duty demanded, all so that one day we could be together.” His unsettling smirk turned to glaring daggers as he shifted to Harkas. “But then this savage, this barbarian swoops in and claims everything I’ve worked so hard towards. Someone so undeserving of your affections that I thought this some cruel joke. But I will not stand idly by while this injustice cheats me out of my hearts desires.”  
“So you tried to kill her?!” Lyse barked, balling her fists. “You tried to murder her because of some petty jealousy?!”  
“I wouldn’t put it that way.” His face turned from grim to unsettlingly calm. “I think of it more like removing one of the obstacles stopping me from reaching happiness. By force.” He gave a shrug. “Much like we’ve been doing so far with the Garleans and the primals.”  
“But she was your ally! Your friend!” Lyse was an ilm away from punching him as she screamed, but F’Rhigi simply sneered.  
“She was never a friend. And merely an ally of convenience. But convenient no longer.”  
“Rhigi has always shown some mild distaste towards Harkas. He’s always thought her uncultured and impulsive” Daseaux interjected. It was directed to the other scions, as he struggled to bring himself to look at his companion, but he forced himself to turn to him. “But this…You’re a disgrace, Rhigi.”  
“Oh no, how awful.” The miqo’te spat sarcasm back at the elezen. “A lecture on loyalty from the knight who turned on his own spiritual leader. How are things up on that high chocobo of yours?” Now it was Daseauxs’ turn to glare disdainfully.  
“He lead a whole nation down a path of lies and war. You were merely jealous. My conscience is clear.” Again, F’Rhigi sneered. “But putting the past behind us, you once more bit off more than you can chew. You failed.”  
“And you’ll be spending tonight at least in jail.” Lyse jeered at him, and the soldiers that held the bound miqo’te nodded, and made to drag him away.  
“You’re scum, Harkas!” F’Rhigi bellowed. “Backstabbing swine!” The scions that remained turned to leave, Y’shtola supporting Harkas as they headed for their room to mend the wounds, Lyse in tow. “You’re undeserving of her affection, you uneducated savage!” he kept loosing words like arrows, hoping one would stick, though none did. Daseaux stood, disgusted as he watched his former ally dragged away. He felt a tap on his leg, and looking down, saw Tufufu, who looked disturbed and saddened, and knelt so that she could speak easier.  
“We should go with them.” She whispered. “If he tries something, they’ll need help.” Her own words caused a surge of guilt. She knew what he’d done, but the thought of having to face off against her former friend left her feeling sickened. Daseaux simply nodded, taking a moment to wrap an arm around her, holding her close in an effort to comfort her.  
“And I’m glad your whore of a sister died!” another outburst erupted from F’Rhigi as he writhed in the guards grip, wrenching an arm free and spinning to face Harkas. This one cut through the subdued chatter leaving only silence, and Scion and Warrior of Light alike froze, staring at the miqo’te, stunned, before slowly they turned to Harkas, who remained bolted in place.

“What did you just say?” Harkas’ words were a low growl that bounced through the hall and even the wind outside seemed to silence itself.  
“You heard me! That bitch of a sister you had! I’m glad she died facing Nidhogg! It’s all you deserve!” F’Rhigis’ taunt echoed back, breaking the silence for just a second before it closed back in. Both Tufufu and Daseaux took a step back, clearing the space between F’Rhigi and Harkas, glancing between both Warriors of Light. Lyse, meanwhile, stood shocked by the insults, having not noticed the Elezen and Lalafell sidling away. “The twelve denied me a mercy when you survived! I just hope it was painful for her! But I guess we’ll never know, will we?! And who’d want to see her again?!”.

Y’shtola gazed up at Harkas from under her arm, only seeing the gritted teeth, the rest of her face concealed by shadow, and slowly she lifted the warriors arm and slipped from beneath it. Taking a step towards Lyse, the archon grabbed her wrist, gently tugging at it, wordlessly asking the pugilist to follow. It took a moment for Lyse to notice the suggestion, finally snapping back to the situation and following Y’shtola out of the no-mans land forming between the Warrior and the Thaumaturge. As they reached what they felt a safe distance, they looked back. There, stood the rigid, unmoving form of Harkas. Then they realised she wasn’t still. Her hands were balled into fists, and her arms trembled with rage. Droplets of crimson fell from her fists, and Y’shtola wondered if they were from her wounds, or if she were clenching them so hard she was actually drawing blood.  
“Nobody! We’re better off without that useless harlot!” F’Rhigi kept pushing his point, until finally, Harkas snapped, spinning in a fraction of a second, her stance stooped.  
“SHUT UP. FOR TWELVES SAKE, SHUT YOU GODS DAMNED MOUTH.” She screamed, and all who heard it stepped back, the guards who previously held F’Rhigi put some distance between themselves and their quarry, who stood his ground.  
“Or you’ll what?” he sneered. “You can’t do anything! You never could! That’s why she’s dead!” he let out a leacherous chuckle, but it was drowned out by Harkas’ bellowing, pained scream. The others could only watch as the warrior writhed, her hands pawing at her head amidst wails. They could feel aether pooling around her, though F’Rhigi either didn’t notice, or didn’t care. He stood gloating as Harkas’ howling turned into a guttural roar, wisps of red and black aether flickered around her like fire, and her eyes glowed a deep crimson. “Look at your warrior now! Look at the woman you chose, Y’shtola! No more than a rabid bea-” The miqo’te had attempted to gloat, but was unable to finish his sentence before he felt his jaw break as a fist as hard as steel struck him. In the blink of an eye Harkas had crossed the distance between them, and as the first blow landed, the second was already incoming. Another fist driving deep into his gut causing him to buckle over. A third strike hit him in the temple sending him sprawling to the ground, landing on his back. In an instant the raging warrior was upon him, a knee on his chest keeping him pinned. He tried to wriggle free, but another blow came down, this time breaking his nose with a crack, and again, the miqo’te was knocked unconscious.

But Harkas’ onslaught didn’t stop. Blow after blow rained down upon his face, each one sending a spatter of crimson across the floor with a sickening thud and accompanied by a bestial howl, and the others could only watch, wondering if F’Rhigi would manage to survive. Blood had pooled beneath his head, and just as they thought he’d breathed his last, Harkas brought a fist up. And it stayed up. A minute passed in silence, until finally the fist dropped limply, and Harkas fell to the side landing face down. As she crumpled, the others finally moved, rushing to the prone figures. Most crowded around the Roegadyn, fearing she’d succumbed to her wounds. Y’shtola was the first to touch her, and Lyse noted that this was the first time she’d seen her look visibly panicked, clawing at the warriors shoulder and attempting to roll her over. Her hand was steadied as a silver gauntlet clasped over hers, Daseaux kneeling just beside her, though still standing more than a foot taller, his other hand hooked around Harkas’ waist, and together rolling her onto her back was simple. 

To their relief, the warrior was conscious, breathing raggedly. Her gaze was unfocussed, but as the archon placed a hand on her cheek, her eyes flickered, slowly shifting to stare up into the archons pale, almost diamond like eyes.  
“I…what happened?” her voice was coarse and scratchy, no doubt from the constant screaming. “I…I lost control, didn’t I?” her head rolled to the side, and she saw her handiwork. F’Rhigis’ face was unrecognisable, beaten to a bloody pulp, and Harkas was sure she’d busted one of his eyes. Struggling to sit up, she held a hand to her face, rubbing her nose and eyes with a groan. “I wish you hadn’t seen that. I don’t think I’ve ever lost control like that before.” Again, she glanced at the ruined miqo’te beside her. “Though he deserved it. Just…I need to be alone.” No objections were offered, but Harkas could tell Y’shtola wanted to. Grunting as she rose to her feet, she stumbled to the wall, using it to keep herself upright as she shambled away around the corner. A moment later, they heard the door creak and slam closed. The group shared an uneasy look. They’d seen Harkas wield the power of the beast as her training had taught her, but they’d never seen her lose control.

It was Daseaux who broke the ensuing silence.  
“Well, she’s right. She’s not lost control for as long as I’ve known her.” He wore a wry smile, but that faded as he looked to F’Rhigi. “And even then, I don’t think was completely out of control. He’s alive, that much I can tell, and if she was at the complete mercy of the beast I don’t think I could say that. I can’t say I blame her though. I’d have done the same thing in her position. We all owe Reisui our lives. Numerous times, at that, and her passing was a grim time for all of us, I can only imagine how she suffered. I don’t know if he meant what he said, but gods I hope he didn’t.” He sighed, long and deep, before turning to a solemn looking Y’shtola. “I know she said she wanted to be alone, but you should go see her. At the very least you need to mend her wounds, And I think currently, you’re the only person who’d be able to provide her any comfort.” The archon was lost in thought, but nodded. “Don’t worry about Rhigi. We’ll make sure he’s seen to and interned.” Tufufu looked ready to interject, but quick hand gesture from the elezen made her hold it.  
“I believe you’re right.” The archon spoke at last, much to his relief. “She requires more help than she knows. And even if I’m only able to soothe her physical wounds, I would remain at her side nonetheless.” She took a step forward, but a tug on her hand stopped her. It’s source was Lyse, who held the archons hand for a moment, giving her a soft, warm smile and clasped her other hand over the top with a gently shake. The smile spread to Y’shtola, who in turn, cupped her free hand over Lyse’s.  
“Look at you, all supportive of your partner.” The monks cheery voice was almost teasing, but there was kindness behind it, that warmed the archons cheeks. “Maybe someday there’ll be wedding bells!” she giggled.  
“A little pre-emptive, Lyse. After all, barely seven moons have passed.” Y’shtola could only smile in response to her enthusiasm.  
“But you like her too, hm? The kitten is smitten herself?” another playful jab towards the archon, who could only nod, her cheeks flush. 

The moment was interrupted, however, by a thud emanating from the room Harkas had entered, spurring the miqo’te to leave.  
“Then if you’ll excuse me.” She slipped her hand from between Lyse’s and turned on her heel, heading towards the door, when a higher voice spoke out.  
“Y’shtola.” The archon paused, but didn’t turn as Tufufu spoke. “I hope this doesn’t need saying, but look after her.”  
“I will.” And with that, the archon left them to deal with the unconscious miqo’te.  
“You’ve really messed up this time, Rhigi.” She heard Daseaux mumble under his breath.


	3. Chapter 3

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> In which wrongs are mended.

The creaking door was the only noise in the dark room as Y’shtola entered, the only smell that of burnt flesh and hair. The window let in very little light from this angle, and quickly scanning the room, she easily noticed the bulky form of Harkas huddled in the corner beside the large wooden wardrobe, but first made for the bedside table, taking the brass candle holder that stood upon it. Holding her fingers to the wick, a spark jumped forth, bringing a warm light to life. It served the archon little, but helped her illusion of sight as she re-searched the room. Strewn across the bed Harkas used was her ruined coat, charred leather still reeking and damp with blood. Not far from that was what was once a plain white shirt, now burned black and stained crimson, and leaning against the foot of the bed, standing a lonely vigil as if guarding the room, was her axe. Finally, in the corner, knees to her chest and face buried between them, was the warrior. Now stripped of upper clothing, her wounds were all the clearer. Where her coat had fused to her skin there was now shredded flesh, Harkas having simply torn it away without care, seeping scarlet drops. Large patches of blood red flesh were visable where the outer layers had melted away all along her arm and flank, and the remaining skin around it was warped and blistered. Even her face was marred with seared flesh, patches of scalp now exposed where hair had smouldered away. How she kept going with wounds like these was beyond the archon, but already the bleeding had mostly stopped, save for the fresh tears where leather and skin were once fused. This was her gift, an extrodinary resilience and recovery, but natural regeneration could only do so much. Curiously, the warriors right knuckle was scuffed, fragments of stone embedded within, a finger bent out of line, thin red streaks leading down the back of her hand. And this was her own blood, not that of F’Rhigi, as far as she could tell. The cracked stone on the wall above her gave her source of the new wound, and the earlier thud, though she wished it hadn’t been on the wall of their room.

Cautiously, Y’shtola knelt besides the hunched warrior, bringing her fingers within ilms of the warriors wounds. From here she could hear the Roegadyns hushed breathing, a relieving sign that she was still alive.  
“Harkas…” the Archon whispered. “Are you awake?”. There was a painful moment of silence where it almost seemed the warrior was unresponsive, until slowly her head turned, revealing a truly despondent face.  
“I thought I said I wanted to be alone?” Harkas tried to sound threatening, but her voice trembled.  
“And if that is truly what you wish, then I shall oblige.” Unlike the warrior, Y’shtola’s voice was calm and stern, almost demanding. “But not before these wounds are treated. I trust you’ll co-operate. Or will I have to restrain you?” She maintained eye contact as she gave her command, and for a moment she feared she’d have to follow through on the threat, until Harkas once again hid her face in her knees. Taking this as permission, Y’shtola began her work, closing her eyes as her fingers weaved a soft, pale light that then danced through the air between them. As it melted into the warriors skin, it began to spread over her whole body. 

The light soothed Harkas’ agony, and she could feel her body shifting as the magicks re-knitted and regrew skin. Where there were previously tears and bloodied craters, now fresh, smooth skin rose, warped skin twisted and reshaped itself, blisters faded away and the misaligned finger cracked back into place. Like watching time flow backwards, the injuries sealed themselves, new skin weaving itself together, rising from her afflictions until there was not a trace remaining. Even her hair had regrown, strands of light sprouting from her head and trailing for a fulm, before disappating revealing new locks of azure. Within seconds, it was impossible to tell just what had befallen Harkas minutes ago, the warrior looking as smooth as ever, with the exception of a number of scars that adorned her body as they had for years, each with a tale Harkas enjoyed telling, though she was in no mood to do so now. Opening her eyes, Y’shtola admired her handiwork, ensuring that she’d not missed anything.  
“And here you feared me becoming a target should our relationship become known.” Y’shtola smirked, trying to cheer up the warrior.  
“Because this is so much better.” Came the muffled response. Gradually, Harkas turned her head once more to stare back at the archon. “because if this is what an Ally will do to get rid of me, then I can only imagine what an inter-dimensional dark sorcerer will do.” The Archon placed a hand on Harkas’ shoulder, matching eye level as her gaze intensified.   
“And when that time comes, I know our foes will find themselves seeking mercy on the underside of your boot.”  
“And if they have you?” Harkas posed the question  
“Then they only invoke your fullest wrath.”  
Harkas fluttered for a moment, a brief flicker of hope that was gone as soon as it appeared.  
“Unless I lose control again…Then I’m no better than a rabid dog.” Y’shtola shifted her hand just a little, curling her fingers round the back of the warriors neck.  
“You maintained more control than you believe, Harkas.” Her words were soft and encouraging, her stern face softening to a smile, but Harkas scowled and turned away.  
“You saw me. He baited me right into his trap. Proved me the savage I am.” She grumbled.  
“And you wanted him dead?”  
“You heard what he said about Rei. I wanted to tear him limb from limb. Literally.” The warrior gave a deep sigh. “But I knew that would be what he wanted. And you can’t just kill one of the heroes of the realm without consequence. Even if you helped him.” Again, Harkas hid her head in her knees. The archon gave a cheery sneer, lifting her hand and running her dainty fingers through the warriors newly regrown hair, gently stroking her head.  
“You’re aware he yet draws breath, aren’t you?”

It took a moment for Harkas to react, lifting her head a few ilms.  
“I didn’t kill him? But…everything he said…I lost myself to the beast…” she was mumbling, though Y’shtola picked up every word.  
“And even in that unruly state you still restrained yourself. That doesn’t sound like the actions of some vagabond savage, if you ask me. He may have spent years pursuing arcane knowledge, modelling himself a scholar, and yet it all came to nothing.” The Archons words cut through Harkas’ thoughts like a knife. “He may have sought to prove you a beast, but all he achieved was to show your control, even when your worst was brought to bare.”  
Y’shtola shuffled herself round, now kneeling in front of the Roegadyn, and even sat straight she still dipped below level with the hunched warrior, who found herself unable to tear herself away from the miqo’te. Her situation wasn’t helped as she felt the dainty fingers brush over her cheeks, gently pressing down, encouraging her to keep staring into the gem-like eyes of her partner.  
“But surely you’d be better off with someone better versed in history. Someone…well, smarter.” Harkas still put up some resistance, still sounding unsure of herself. Despite the week together, she still doubted her worthiness. One final smile dismissed her worries.  
“I’m better off with whomever I choose to be with.” Slowly, the Archon drew closer, leaning in until their faces were ilms apart, before her voice dropped to a whisper.  
“And I have made my choice. I made my choice many moons past.” And with that, she pressed her lips against Harkas’, savouring the feeling as someone who could withstand myriad magicks and blades crumbled at her touch. Both of their eyes drifted shut. She felt the giant hands wrap around her back, trembling, holding her close, and she felt safe. No doubt she’d hear endless teasing from Lyse the next day, but if that was the price she had to pay, she did so willingly.

Moments passed as they were locked together, but eventually, the archon pulled back. More time passed in silence before their eyes began to flutter open, both still desiring the others lips.  
“Many moons ago?” Harkas was the one to break the silence, though it took a second for the archon to discern her meaning, tilting her head.  
“Ah, you mean my decision?” she sought clarification, and Harkas gave a nod. “Well it wasn’t made with you specifically in mind, if that is what you were inquiring about. Just that when the time came, I would offer my affections to the one I felt right. Does that sate your curiosity?” She had just a hint of a taunt in her voice.  
“I guess so. I guess I was hoping that maybe you’d decided on me from the get-go, but I knew that wasn’t the case.” Harkas wore a wry smile. It was clear the events still weighed on her mind, but Y’shtola could tell that she’d alleviated much.  
“When I decided is of no concern, only that I did, and that I will stand by you.” The archon made clear that this was the final word, and Harkas relented, her smile easing just a little.  
“Thank you, Y’shtola. For all this.” Harkas’ was quiet, and if it wasn’t for the already looming silence, it would’ve been easily drowned out.  
“You’ve no need to thank me. I couldn’t leave you in such a state.” Y’shtolas hands slipped down, curling behind the warriors neck and interlinking, heads still only ilms apart. Harkas’ head dipped, breaking the eye contact.  
“I mean, not just for the healing. For being here. I’m meant to be some grand hero, some unflinching warrior, but-”   
“But you’re still a person.” Harkas couldn’t even finish her sentence before the archon jumped in. “Just remain strong. You have allies to support you, and even should they fail, I shall be there beside you, to catch you should you fall.” Her voice was a gentle singing in Harkas’ ears, and her lips curled into a broader smile. “And regarding your fellow Warriors of Light, two of them have at least given us their approval.” Harkas’ rose up somewhat, leaning back against the wall. No longer hunched over she towered almost two fulms over the kneeling miqo’te, and sighed.  
“And how are we going to proceed? Did you ask them to keep it a secret? Or are we playing with our cards on the table, so to speak?” Her question meant it was Y’shtolas turn to look away, looking vaguely embarrassed.   
“Had Lyse not been there, then I would have, But I doubt she would remain quiet even if asked, so I felt it a moot point. No doubt she’s already spreading the word.” There was a hint of annoyance in her tone, but it appeared that she had accepted the eventuality, and Harkas sighed once more.  
“I suppose I should prepare myself for the inevitable questions, huh?”. She already sounded tired of the inquiries, despite none having arisen, and Y’shtola chuckled in response.  
“You ought also to prepare some new garments.” She glanced over at the tattered remains of Harkas’ coat and shirt, and Harkas quickly became aware of her half-nude state, her face turning a vivid red, her hands quickly pulling away from the archon and attempting to cover herself.  
“That’s probably a good idea.” She stammered, quickly lifting herself to her feet and moving to the wardrobe. Y’shtola could only smile as she watched Harkas try to hide herself behind the door, her form far too big to properly conceal as she rummaged through, pulling out a plain white tunic and throwing it on.  
“I suppose I’ll have to talk to Daseaux tomorrow. See where he gets his armour from.” The wardrobe door groaned closed, and Harkas looked more like a simple villager than a warrior. “Because if this is going to become the standard, I’m going to need more protection. Maybe I can get something more intimidating, too. Make people think twice before attacking.” She mused. She sounded solemn, though she lacked the near hopeless tone she had previously, which was at least some reassurance to Y’shtola.  
“I’m glad to see you’re feeling a bit more yourself.”   
“Well, it’s hard to stay down too long. He may have said some really rough things, but in the end, he’s the one in jail with a busted face.” She did her best to appear proud and cheery, but it was obvious that she was merely putting on a brave face. “But I’d be lying if I said you weren’t the biggest reason. Chances are I’d have been down and out for days. And the scars I’d have…We’re going to have to find another companion, too. It goes without saying that I’m never going to work with him again. Because if I even have to talk to him ever again, I’d much rather just end him there and then.” a bit more of the heroic bravado arose, but the moment was ruined as Harkas’ stomach growled. Her stoic mood ruined, she rubbed her abdomen. “I suppose I haven’t eaten in a while, either. That whole ordeal may only have lasted a few minutes, but it really takes it out of you.” Y’shtola could only offer a chuckle as she rose to her feet.  
“Well then, shall we locate the others and adjourn to the dining halls?”  
“You took the words right out of my mouth, then made them sound more eloquent.” Harkas said with a grin, and headed for the door. Y’shtola soon followed suit, finding the door held open by the warrior.

Back out in the hallway, it was still mostly shrouded in shadow. A handful of Ala Mhigan guardsmen still watched the area, a few torches now lit in their sconces on the wall, but for the most part, the warriors main light source was the candle carried by the archon. The scene had been tidied, F’Rhigi had been moved, presumably to the gaol, and no other Scions nor Warriors of Light could be seen. As the door groaned shut the guardsmen looked their way, but upon realising their identities, only offered a salute before returning to their conversation. Together, the pair made their way through the palace. Neither said a word, both had already voiced their prominent concerns earlier, but Harkas felt a hand creep over her own as the archon slipped into her palm, giving the Roegadyns much larger hand a reassuring squeeze, which was quickly returned, Y’shtolas’ hand completely enveloped within the warriors.

The mess hall was simply one of the palaces dining halls, nearest the kitchens, that the resistance had converted, having filled it with extra tables. It still held the decorations and heraldy of Ala Mhigan kings past, paintings and tapestries hanging on the walls, but the floor was littered with small groups of off-duty soldiers taking their meals. The scions had claimed one of the vacant tables, some distance from the other soldiers, hoping for some quiet. Alongside Y’shtola and Harkas were Lyse and Alphinaud. Thankfully, while Lyse would constantly beam at the couple whenever she looked at them and chime in with not-quite-so subtle couple jokes, prompting a number of confused looks from the young elezen, she said nothing about the relationship, leaving him out of the know, at least for the time being.

Time passed quickly, the group discussing plans for Doma, the future of Ala Mhigo, the attack earlier that night, much to Harkas’ chagrin, and just what to do with the now traitorous Warrior of Light. The only conclusion reached was that they’d have to start searching for another Echo-blessed to replace him. Eventually, time came for Alphinaud to return to his duties, and with him went Lyse and Y’shtola, who bade the warrior a goodnight and a subtle “see you tonight” much to the monks delight, leaving Harkas alone. She kept the calm, somewhat cheerful demeanour up right up until the trio vanished from sight, where immediately her face dropped, showing her exhaustion as she turned back to the empty table, wrapping her hands around a steaming mug of tea as she stared into its shimmering surface. 

She was soon drifting into daydreams, pictures of her late sister, their last moments together as she held Reisui in her arms, desperately trying to keep her in place as she faded, tiny lights floating away as her aether disappated until there was nothing left to hold. Even her soul crystal was taken by her fairies as they too vanished, leaving Harkas crumpled in the center of the Steps of Faith, a howling mess of a woman. The dreadwyrm Nidhogg was vanquished, his eyes pulled from Estinien, but she felt no joy at the victory. Harkas wondered if her sister would approve her and Y’shtola, of the risk she was taking. No doubt she’d want the warrior to find happiness, and there was no doubt the archon provided just that, but within a week someone had tried to kill her simply because of that. It was possible that if Reisui were still here then the warrior wouldn’t have confessed when she had. But this was pointless posturing. What was done was done, for better or worse. At least she had the archon.

Her daydreams were interrupted suddenly, however, as a tankard thudded down onto the table beside her. Jerking back to reality, her head snapped round and her vision was filled with shining silver plate.  
“Y’shtola’s really worked some magic on you, hasn’t she?” came the confidant voice of Daseaux, as he rounded the table and lowered himself onto a bench opposite the warrior. “Not a trace of damage left on you.”. Harkas only responded with an acknowledging grunt as she watched him. He didn’t have his helmet with him, his blonde hair looking almost amber in the torchlight and his chiselled features were accentuated by shadow, and in his hands he held another tankard. “I figured you could use something a bit stronger than tea after this evening. It may not be wine, but this ale isn’t the worst.” He emphasized his point with a swig, his armour lightly clanking. The warrior gave an appreciative smile, one hand leaving her ceramic mug and moving to grasp the handle.  
“Thanks. I could really use something to help ease my thoughts.” Her smile turned a little awkward, though she tried her best to mask it.  
“I’m not surprised, after all that. How’re you holding up?”  
“I could be worse, all things considered.” Harkas tried to sound optimistic, but it was clearly strained. “Y’shtola patched me up pretty good. Both physically and emotionally.” Her answer made the Elezen smirk as he watched her.  
“Good to hear she’s treating you well, then. I’d really hope she was, considering tonight’s revelation. That whole…being a couple affair.” Even hearing it caused the warrior to turn a deep red, and she tried to hide her embarrassment behind a gulp of ale. “So, how long have the two of you been together?” 

The warriors response was uncharacteristically timid. She kept the tankard in front of her mouth, trying her best to hide her blush.  
“It’s been…just over seven moons now. I think tonight’s the eighth since I accidentally confessed.”. Daseaux cocked an eyebrow as he drank, pulling the tankard away briefly.  
“Accidentally?” he pried a bit further, and Harkas closed her eyes, frustrated that she kept digging herself deeper.  
“Yeah…She was asking me about something, talking about knowing my secret. So when I admitted that I thought I’d fallen in love with her, it turned out she had no idea I felt that strongly about her. She just thought I was smitten.” She paused briefly, gulping down another mouthful of ale to steady herself. “It took her a day to figure out her own thoughts, but…well, you already know the result.” Daseuax chuckled, watching the warrior drown her embarrassment, but quickly his face turned dour.  
“I’d be surprised if you saw all this coming, though.” He still looked troubled by the events of the evening.  
“Can’t say I ever did. I expected to have to protect her from say, the Garleans. Or the Ascians. Not have someone try to kill me because of her.” Harkas let out a resigned sigh as she lowered her tankard, matching Daseauxs’ stern look. “Least of all another Warrior of Light.”  
“I’ve known that Rhigi had his own feelings for Y’shtola, but…Well I didn’t know it’d push him that far.” The warrior tilted her head, curious.   
“How long has he sought her?” she asked, and the Elezen pondered for a moment.  
“Well, I don’t know when it started, but I know he tried to court her back when we first went to combat Titan. She made her disinterest plain as day, but it didn’t discourage him much. In fact it made him more resolute, if anything. He had this whole plan where he’d return to his tribe after all this was over, with Y’shtola by his side, and claim the title of Nunh. Not much of a chance of that happening now, huh.”  
“Well isn’t that too bad for him.” Harkas’ response was dripping sarcasm, prompting an awkward silence between the two, both opting to fill it with a long drink.

It was Daseaux who eventually broke the quiet after looking Harkas up and down.  
“I have to say, it’s odd seeing you in garb that…rustic. It doesn’t really suit you, if you ask me.” He sounded a bit more cheerful compared to just prior, enjoying the peasant-dressed Roegadyn.  
“Well, the fire kind of ruined my shirt. And my coat, which is annoying, to say the least. I loved that coat.” The warrior sounded a bit glum, lamenting the death of her outfit.  
“It was a fine coat, yes. Not a style I’d expect from an axe toting warrior, but it worked.” The elezen nodded in agreement.  
“That does remind me, though.” Harkas took advantage of the pause in conversation. “I think it might be time to finally invest in some proper armour.”  
“Not a terrible idea, even if you still had your coat.”  
“Mm. But I don’t really just want any old suit of armour. Who made yours?” Harkas spent a moment admiring the near-pristine silver plate that adorned the Dark Knight as he spoke.  
“Ah, this? I had it commissioned shortly after we defeated the Archbishop, from one of the best smiths in the Temple Knights, if not Ishgard entirely.” He lifted an arm, showing off the gauntlet with a touch of admiration. “Crafted especially for me. And I must say, it’s an astounding piece of work.” The warrior nodded, appreciating the quality, the detailed metal plates covering even the fingers as they bent and curled.  
“Do you think he’d be willing to create something for me?” she asked, with a hint of hope.  
“I don’t see why not. After all, you’re one of the saviours of Ishgard. I’m sure he’d be delighted to have another Hero of Eorzea bearing his works.” The good news allowed Harkas to relax a little, smiling softly.  
“That’s good then, Though I think I’d better get this done sooner, so I’ll head to Ishgard in the morning. Where can I find him?” the warrior asked, picturing the layout of the Holy City in her head. The Elezen hesitated briefly, bringing a finger to his chin.  
“How about I just show you tomorrow? I’ve been wanting to return home sometime, see how the reform is going, check in on family.” Harkas nodded  
“That would work too. Might help having you with me if he’s not entirely enthusiastic.”. Both took another drink, Daseaux draining the last of his ale and eyeing the now visable metal base.  
“Then it’s settled. I’ll see you tomorrow.” he grunted as he rose back to his feet, sliding out from the bench. “I’ve some tasks I must attend to before the day is done, but let us meet tomorrow at say, ten bells at the palace entrance?”  
“Works for me.” The Warrior answered, and the Elezen gave an affirming nod, followed by a quick warriors salute, banging a plated fist against his breastplate before winding his way through the crowd of soldiers, and leaving the warrior alone once more, though this time she seemed less gloomy as she drank the last of her ale.

Gradually, F’Rhigi awoke in a dark, damp stone room, groaning loudly. His face was in considerable pain and as he brought his hand up to it, felt the unmistakeable texture of dried blood that had drained from almost all his features. His nose, his mouth, even one of his eyes seemed to have a bloodtrail, not to mention the swelling he could feel all over. Next he realised he had been stripped of all clothing beyond a ragged shirt and trousers, not did he have any of his magical foci. There was one entry into this room, a thick wooden door reinforced with bands of iron, a small rectangular hole filled with wrought iron bars stood just above his head level, and as he rose, grumbling in discomfort, he heard movement outside. Soon, a face mostly covered with the Ala Mhigan resistances facemask peered through the viewport.  
“Finally awake, are you?” came a gruff voice before it disappeared behind the door again, and F’Rhigi could hear him speaking to someone else. “He’s awoken. Send a missive to the commander, she wanted to talk to him at the earliest opportunity.” Followed by “Yes sir!” in a softer voice as footsteps echoed down the hall, growing more distant.

F’Rhigi’s demands to know where he was were met with silence from the guard at his door, as were his requests for his gear. Eventually, his questioning garnered a response from the Hyur outside.  
“You’re in the gods damn gaol, you fool. Now shut up.”  
“The gaol? Why in the hells would I be-” he tried to protest, but clutched his head in pain. Memories began to return. Of his failed attack, of the confrontation with Lyse, Y’shtola, Daseaux and Tufufu, and of the raging beasts fists coming at him. The recollection angered him into silence, but even that didn’t last as he realised that an enraged beast would be of little appeal to the archon. That had been his plan with the goading. To expose her as the uncontrollable savage she was, though he wished he hadn’t done such a good job, his face twitching as he pictured the oncoming blows.

He didn’t know how much time passed in the silence. The lack of windows, or any natural light made it tough to determine the time of day. Eventually, he heard footsteps approaching. Three sets, as he made it, followed by hushed chatter outside. Soon after, he heard the two voices from before utter a “Ma’am.” And their diminishing footfall. Clearly someone had come to question him, and he awaited their appearance in the viewport. To his surprise, there was a clatter as wood hit stone, and a blonde haired woman appeared behind the bars.  
“Ah, Commander Hext. To what do I owe the pleasure?” his words contained a shot of venom for good measure. He cared little for what Lyse had come for, after all, she already knew all he was willing to tell her.  
“I’ve just come to appraise you of your situation.” She sounded unusually stern, cold.  
“Well you have my attention. Not like I can do anything to stop you in here, anyways.” He gave a dismissing shrug.  
“No doubt you’ve noticed your injuries persist. None of our conjurers nor medicants felt inclined to aid you beyond Tufufu repairing your eye, an act of mercy we granted you only because of your service to Eorzea. The Scions have discussed the matter of the attack on Harkas last night, and we have reached a decision.” There was a pause as Lyse looked off to the side, to someone just out of sight, before she gave them a resolute nod. “F’Rhigi Tia. For the attempted murder of Harkas Rallur, you are dismissed from the Scions of the Seventh Dawn.” She didn’t sound entirely comfortable making such an announcement, but she powered through, and the news came as another hammer blow to the imprisoned Miqo’te.  
“And who gave you the authority to give such orders?” he growled.  
“The united decision of all acting leaders.” Came a voice from out of sight, though he could immediately recognise it as belonging to Y’shtola. Lyse again glanced to the side, presumably at the archon before turning back.  
“And you are to remain incarcerated until such a time as we deem fit to release you.” The monk added. “That is all.” And pulled herself away from the viewport, the sound of boots on wood noticeable as she disappeared, more down than sideways. “Anything you want to say?” she could be heard just on the otherside, and then two footsteps were heard as Y’shtolas’ snow coloured ears poked into view, soon followed by the rest of her face as she looked disdainfully into the cell.  
“This was brought about by your own doing, F’Rhigi. You’re a blight upon the Warrior of Light title, and I feel no remorse in telling you that I regret not your dismissal, and that in every aspect I would choose Harkas over you.” An uncommon act of spite from the Archon that bit deep into F’Rhigi, his face twisting how it could into a disfigured snarl. “And should you ever be free of this confinement, should you ever lay even a finger upon her, that you shall find yourself festering from the inside out.” A final threat from the archon signified the end of her statement as she vanished from sight. Fading footsteps followed as the two scions left, leaving F’Rhigi in the creeping darkness, wanting to fire barbs back at the scions that had befouled him so, but unable to force any words past his clenched jaw, even as it physically pained him. 

Soon after, he heard the guards returning, one taking up their post outside in the corridor, the other moving off, presumably on patrol, and the Thaumaturge was eerily calm. After all, this gaol would be unable to hold him forever, and when he was free, he’d be able to correct this cruel mistake. Nobody was invincible, everyone had a weakness, and finding Harkas’ wouldn’t prove a major challenge. Nor would Y’shtolas’ condemnation. She would come to realise he was the only right choice. After all, minds can be changed, voluntarily or by force. There were no doubt ample concoctions and incantations that could see to that. He just needed to locate them, then all would be as it should. Giving a sneering chuckle, he sat himself back down on the wooden board that was his bed. He would endure the gaol for the time being. No doubt some business would draw mighty Warriors of Light and Scion alike back to Doma. He merely needed to wait for his opportunity.

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> This was where things felt like they started to drag out, so, apologies if it's not quite up to scratch. Lots I wanted to write, but not a lot of solid plans to write it.

**Author's Note:**

> I mostly just wanted to start including other WoLs beyond the one, since "one and only hero" never sat quite right with me. This turned out far longer than I expected it to, though. Probably declined closer to the end/In later chapters.


End file.


> I originally wrote the WoL with... a male Xaela in mind because I'm just that self indulgent. However, a free company friend told me that my WoL shapeshifts due to all the Fantasias I consume so... let's just say the WoL is Au Ra and call it a day ;'))))) This is also the first time I've posted any writing I've ever done so this is a terrifying experience

The Warrior of Light will not deny the fact that they did indeed waltz into Sidurgu’s life uninvited. They will also not deny the fact that they had finally found their own cause they believed was worth fighting for. They will trace his fingers nonchalantly across Sidurgu’s scales as he scowls, but relaxes into their touch albeit reluctantly at first. But now he lets a tired sigh roll past his lips, the feeling of their cold fingertips ghost over his scales having grown on him. But that does not mean he doesn't snap at them from time to time - asking why they couldn't trace their own scales. And he would be at a loss for words when they pout and tell him that ‘it just wouldn't be the same.’

 

“What's on your mind?”

 

Their voice pierces through the silence, and Sidurgu chuckles. He takes their hand in his, playing with their fingers. There's a hint of a playful smile that tugs at his lips,

 

“It's nothing,”

 

He turns and expects to see Fray; Fray with his pale amber eyes and his rare, but beautiful smile.

 

_ Fray? _

 

The ghost of a name almost slips from his lips, but he catches it.

 

_ No, not Fray. Never Fray. _

 

He watches as the Warrior of Light tilts their head with a rather puzzled expression, wondering what had caused Sidurgu to freeze so abruptly. He pushes himself off the bed and walks towards the window, welcoming the soft breeze that greets him. The Warrior of Light follows, placing a hand on Sidurgu’s lower back for comfort. They can feel Sidurgu grow tense when they touch him, and they wonder if it's a habit Sidurgu could ever learn to grow out of. But they digress, having Sidurgu allow them to touch him so casually was already an improvement from when they first met.

 

The Warrior of Light does not pry into Sidurgu’s thoughts. They have no right to do so when Sidurgu leaves them be. Even though a sense of curiosity as a natural adventurer gradually eats away at them, they suppress that need and let their hand slip away from Sidurgu’s back. He shuts the window after a moment of hesitation; his reason for hesitating is unknown even to himself. He falls back into bed and the Warrior of Light climbs in with him without saying a word. He feels odd, there's a strange feeling that stirs in his chest, one that he can't quite put a name to. On nights like these, he wonders what weighs more: his sword or his burdens.

 

And yet, with the Warrior of Light by his side, he feels at ease. Less troubled than he would be if he were on his own, without Fray. And while Rielle is good company, he does not know how he would manage if he did not have another  _ adult _ to talk to. Children are strange, they know things they should not, and turn a blind eye to things that seemed so obvious. He recalls the words that the Warrior of Light had told him: that he was only so afraid because he thinks too much. Perhaps there was some truth in their words. They blow out the candle that rested on the table beside the bed,  _ their _ bed. He’s still not quite used to it, although he does recall memories of sharing a bed with Fray when they were younger. But this was different, he feels a warm breath tickle his neck and he shudders in response.  _ This is not detestable, _ he muses.

 

And as Sidurgu falls asleep, silence overtakes the room. It’s a moment of quiet that everyone desired, a moment where everything is okay. Hopefully, everything would be okay, even with the constant storm of misfortune that seemed to follow the Warrior of Light wherever they went. They wonder if it’s because every hero needs a villain, or because they were just cursed to bring disaster. Perhaps it was them who thinks too much, and they try their best to push those thoughts to the back of their mind.

 

But with those thoughts gone, thoughts of Fray resurface.

 

_ Listen to my voice. _

 

_ — To our heartbeat. _

 

_ Listen, listen… _

 

The voice that the Warrior of Light hears every night when the stars in the sky keeps company is one that they will never be able to drown out. Though it's not like they wanted to in the first place. Fray is gone, they know this. They turn to stare at Sidurgu’s sleeping figure - the same face, but so different at the same time. Lips parted slightly, shallow breaths. He was at peace, at least for now. And it was for him that they would hold onto whatever little they had left of Fray.

**Author's Note:**

> There are probably gonna be more chapters because there's a lot of ideas in my mind... I just don't know how I want it to play out. And everything might be really inconsistent, I feel like I refer to the WoL as.. the WoL too many times but I don't want to like, put a name to them since I want it to be more general. Also if anyone bothers to read this, criticism is so welcome asdfgjghg if I wrote like half of this while half asleep on my phone so.. lots of mistakes


End file.


> uh hi im just real THIRSTY so like here. 
> 
> self indulgent stuff..... just wanted an alternate route to the scene that SE gave us :''')

“I simply _cannot_ leave without first giving thanks to the Warrior of Light, for accompanying me through Yanxia.”

 

Asahi gives Hien a smile. The latter glances towards you, eyeing for approval. A quick nod, and Hien turns to speak with Yugiri. You walk a bit further away from the others, that you two may have some privacy.

 

The wind seems to die down as he takes a step towards you. Your gaze does not leave his face as you notice him taking a quick glance at Hien and Yugiri, his eyes narrowing. You furrow your brow slightly. Asahi’s head moves down, hiding his eyes. You aren’t sure what to make of it. He looks back up, his expression full of disdain. 

 

**“Mark me, savior of the savages. There** **_will_ ** **be a reckoning.”**

 

His voice drips with poison, and if looks could kill, even you might be dead. Your eyes widen for a moment before the all too familiar pain in your head pulls you into another vision.

 

~

 

Smoke. Asahi. Liberation front. They look injured.

 

Nowhere. Traitor.

 

When was this? You don’t know.

 

Thousand more. Swords. Mercy.

 

Zenos. Katana. Death. Gone.

 

~

 

The vision goes as soon as it came, and you are suddenly pulled back into reality as the sound of the water nearby makes its way back towards your ears. The realization suddenly hits you why the man in front of you is angry. He’s angry that you killed someone. Angry that you’d killed Zenos.

 

You hadn’t thought about that man in a while. Not since..

 

“Everything you are- your power, even your face- it vexes me.” Asahi continues speaking, his tone dripping with spite.

 

You can’t help but let the corners of your mouth tug upwards in a grin, but you stop yourself; your teeth gritting together in what appears to be annoyance. Ah, Zenos. You almost missed him.

 

Asahi doesn’t pick up on your expression, and continues mockingly.

 

“Go on. Lash out like the beast you are. At an emissary. And jeopardize the newfound pea-”

 

Grabbing the plenipotentiary by the collar you press your lips into his, your other hand snaking to the back of his neck to keep him in place. Asahi freezes, taken aback by your actions before trying to push you away- to no avail however.

 

You almost expect him to bite you- but he doesn’t. Your eyes linger on his as you nip at his bottom lip. Asahi is still, unmoving. You would go further, but you'd rather not have your tongue bitten off. After a few more seconds, you release the white-clad emissary and lick your lips teasingly. He jumps back a little. To your surprise, nobody looks over; it seems they hadn’t seen. The man you'd just kissed glares at you fiercely, but you only found that even more endearing.

 

“How.. How _dare_ you, you savage.” He sputters, wiping his mouth on the sleeve of his snow white uniform as he reaches to unsheathe his sword. “Your blood w-”

 

Your left hand grabs his face whilst the other grips the wrist of his hand. “ _Shut. up_.” You growl. “Do you think that I care?”

 

He continues to glare as if his eyes are pointed daggers, but you continue.

 

“Do you really think that I won’t kill you right here and now?”

 

“You can’t.” He says, almost smug.

 

“Oh, I will. Just like I did to your _precious_ lord. Even as a _primal_ , he still wasn't good enough. Not enough to **_satisfy_**.”

 

Asahi looks like he’s going to kill you as soon as the words leave your mouth and a twisted smile comes across your face as soon as you see his expression change.

 

**“I will cherish this moment--lock it away within my heart-- until the day we meet again.”**

You say in the exact same tone of voice that Zenos always used, a soft laugh escaping you. As you see Asahi’s nails dig into his palms, you release him.

 

He says nothing, only grits his teeth and walks away.

**Author's Note:**

> TURNED IT AROUND AND USED HIS OWN LINE AGAINST HIM YEAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA
> 
>  
> 
> anyways  
> thanx for readin have a very nice day


End file.


 

Alisaie hadn't even thought about it until this moment, as she lay back onto their cot and letting her arms lay loose across her chest, a sour look on her face.

 

"You're not just doing this to look at my breasts, right?" she questions, watching as Alphinaud rubs a dollop of lotion between his palms, ears going red. 

 

"That's a plus, but no, I wish to help, honest. You've been going off balance in battle, it's obvious they're bothering you." he says, and his reply is as firm and assured as ever, regardless of how warm his face is.

 

Alisaie squints at him again before she slowly lets her arms fall to her side, swallowing. They'd grown at least a cup since they arrived in Doma, and it was more irritating than exciting, to say the least. She'd have to call on Tataru to make her some more clothes... 

 

"You can sit up a little if you want." Alphinaud says, and Alisaie lets out a short exhale before wiggling her way up the cot, until she's inclined a little further, elbows propped beneath her.

 

Her eyes train on Alphinaud's hands- it's obvious he's not sure where to start, so she reaches up with one hand and rubs the side of one of her breasts, where it was most tender. "It's usually pretty sore around here. Closer to the ribs." she says, and Alphinaud takes the cue with ease, shifting forward on the cot and slowly letting his hands glide up her sides, fingertips barely touching her breasts. The sensation makes her shiver, but she tries to keep it under control, toes curling under the sheet at the foot of the cot. 

 

"Here?" he questions, lightly pressing his fingers, soft and gentle, against the sides of her chest, making her wince. 

 

"More- here," she starts, reaching up with one hand and moving his, until his palm was flat against the side of her breast. "Massage it. Gentle- don't kill me, dear brother." she teases.

 

He makes a face as he has his other hand take a similar position before he begins to massage, rubbing and kneading every tender spot Alisaie had a mind to complain about. It was nice- now that the teasing had passed, she hadn't realized just how sore she'd been, mumbling occasionally 'move left' 'up' 'right there' as he ran his hands over her, the lotion having a cooling effect on her skin.

 

She shifts a little under him, her thighs rubbing together as he gets more adept at it- she could fall asleep like this, she thinks. 

 

"Cold?" he asks, and she snaps out of her slight dozing to blink at him. "What? Oh-" she starts, peering down, barely even realizing that her nipples had hardened, probably due to the chill of the lotion and the cool air that passed through the cavern. Her face heats.

 

"A little." she admits, and she knows right away it was a mistake. Alphinaud brings his hands over the front of her breasts, his palms rubbing up against her nipples and making her jump, knees bending as she draws her legs up. "Hey-"

 

"I'm just warming them up for you." Alphinaud says, but his tone betrays his mischievousness, and Alisaie accepts her face as he shifts forward, letting his hands squish up against her before letting his fingers spread, letting her nipples roll between two of them, teasing. 

 

Alisaie can feel the arousal already- it wasn't her fault that her growth had been unkind to her in terms of 'ability Not to be constantly aroused,' her back arching slightly as she tries to push up against Alphinaud's fingers. "S'nice." she  ~~ whines ~~ mumbles, trying to lean back further, Alphinaud following her down without hesitation. 

 

He continues to play with her breasts for a moment before-

 

"Hey- don't stop," she whines when Alphinaud takes one of his hands away, but her protests are cut short when she feels his hand sliding down, over her stomach, over her hips, under her panties-

 

"Don't worry." he hums, holding back a smirk when she arches her hips up to meet his touch. His fingers slide down, running over her folds and teasing at her, obviously relishing in the fact that she was already wet from the rubdown alone. But he doesn't stop there.

 

He replaces the hand that had been on her breast with his mouth, licking a line up from under her beast to her nipple, sucking gently and flicking with his tongue.

 

She was truly fucked, she thinks. 

 

Alisaie can't control her gasps when he lets his thumb roll over her clit, rubbing as gently as he had her nipples, her fingers curling into the cot sheets below them and trying to keep quiet. "Alph-" she hisses, but has to bite her own tongue when he gives her clit a particularly rough rub, the gentleness he'd been showing earlier making way to something rougher, more primal. She peers down at him as her chest heaves, and to her surprise he meets her gaze, looking up at her with half lidded eyes from her breast, letting it pop out from his mouth and kissing around the nipple, sucking the skin, leaving bruises. She can't hold eye contact for long, losing focus as her hips roll up to meet his hand, a hand coming up to run her fingers through his hair as he marks her, sucks hard enough against her breast that she forgets all about how tender they'd been earlier. 

 

He knows her body by now, has known it for ages- he knows how rough to finger her, knows how he should go faster when she's arching up, hips twisting and trying not to clamp her thighs too tight, knows how she's close to coming when her feet lose traction on the cot and she's trying to find ground desperately, to arch her hips up even further, to buck-

 

He knows it before she even mumbles that she's coming, her hips going stock still against his hand as he grinds against her clit, feeling it pulse underneath his thumb and feeling as she breathes in time with the orgasm, the hand in his hair gripping tight enough to mess with his braid. 

 

And then it's over, her hips slowly fall back down to the cot, her eyes still closed as she tries to steady her breathing, fingers trailing down from his hair to his face, thumb brushing over his cheek as he plants gentle kisses across her breast, his other hand retracting itself from her cunt and coming back up to steady himself.

 

"Better?" he asks her, making sure only to lick his fingers once she meets his eye again, a wry smile on her face.

**Author's Note:**

> man, i love these kids.


End file.

**Author's Note:**

> Thanks to the lovely Zahira for this idea.
> 
> This might at a later time become a series of oneshots.

His greetings are smoke and laughter, light and airy both, each bearing a unique flavor bespeaking their creator.

The sun’s final crimson streaks peek through open windows, their red glow soon to be banished, replaced by the moon’s pale rays.  The breeze promises a warm night.

“Daddy!”  Though hardly soft-spoken, Cebalrai’s giggles do little to disturb his mother, supper preparation and the tabletop orchestrion’s classic piece occupying her full attentions. “Daddy look!” Seemingly anticipating Elidibus’ arrival, Cebalrai proudly offers an unfamiliar doll up for inspection. “’s you.”

Clad hood to boot in yarn of black, bearing a familiar mask of red, there’s no doubting the identity of the individual the doll is meant to emulate – and it most certainly is not Elidibus.

Proud as Cebalrai’s declaration might be, such misconceptions cannot be suffered to continue. “Where did you get this?”

“Miss Tarutaru made it to go with mommy. See?”  To demonstrate, he picks up a familiar toy – well-loved and worn from countless nights as a comforting companion – and places it by Lahabrea’s side, across from a larger stuffed behemoth. In unison, Lahabrea and the Warrior of Light banish the fiend, aided by extensive vocal spell effects from their owner.

With such passion in Cebalrai's demonstration, Elidibus must needs choose his words with care.

“Not to disparage such fine craftsmanship, but it doesn’t seem quite right.” Elidibus kneels so that his son might have a clearer view for comparison.

“’s black!” Even before Elidibus finishes placing the toy beside him, Cebalrai notes the distinction between toy and father, surely aware of the difference as soon as it was received. 

“That’s it?”  So near that his light breaths billow Elidibus' hood, Cebalrai’s tiny fingers trace the outline of Elidibus’ mask before trailing down his chest, following the path of ceremonial ornamentation; it seems Elidibus’ lessons about searching for shrouded truths have been well heeded. “And ‘is mask! Oh! and purple. . .”

Cebalrai’s lips quiver as he understands his mistake. “. . .’s not daddy. . .”

His devotion endears as much as his mother’s; Elidibus lifts the child’s face, so that he might meet his eyes. “But he is like us, nonetheless.  We share a purpose.”

“Purr-puss? But daddy never wears black.”

“No.” He agrees. “The colors we wear signify our role. Unukalhai wears white, as he shares my -our – role.”

“. . .don’t get it.” Still so young, Cebalrai’s comprehension remains understandably limited, but Elidibus has ever been a guide, his son the most important student of all.

“Everything has a role. The cup holds water, the bowl holds soup.  But the cup might instead hold juice, the bowl mayhap bears fruit. They are made for their purpose, as we are made for ours, but their roles differ.” 

“What’s our purr-puss?”  Cebalrai’s attentions remain apt, though confusion blossoms in his breast, birthing boredom and distraction.

Leaving the babe to his games, Elidibus imparts his final lesson.

“We serve the One True God.”

“Hmm. . .’kay.”  Even if Cebalrai is too young to ponder Lahabrea – of their roles and purposes, of white and black – in time his curiosity get the better of him, as it does every mortal.

Elidibus needs only to wait.


End file.


> This story covers the events of 3.X, though not everything will be present, nor will everything occur in _exactly the same manner._ One very small change has been made to 3.0 canon that is elaborated on in the prologue.
> 
> As this is expected to be such a long fiction, we've only tagged the necessities. There will be more characters and themes present.
> 
> Please, enjoy.

From the deepest abyss, _something_ pulls at your consciousness, overcoming sleep’s numbing depths. Through the fog, an interruption burns, but you refuse to heed its call, wishing only to return to endless stillness, deeper and deeper -

Stubbornly, the irritant persists. An itch, a prickle. You can barely muster the care to whimper, knowing slumber will overtake the irritation in time.

A tingle, one that might well be the burning numbness brought upon by pressure on a misplaced limb, calls at you next; surely an adjustment of position will bring relief.

Tried and true, the solution proves successful, granting you the embrace of comfort and softness. . .

Sudden sharpness tears you from sleep as surely as a dagger held at your back; instinctively prepared for battle and intimately aware of every muscle in your body, you swat erratically at the imagined attacker, only to find your gifted room in Fortemps Manor as bare as when sleep overtook you bells past. Your hand, separate entity as it may well be for all the control you have so near to panic, searches your skin. Expecting to discover nothing save dream’s delusion, when your fingers come upon something slim and curiously pointed along several edges, pressing into bare flesh, sleep’s irritation fades, replaced by dull prickles of curiosity. Your body might well be ready for action, but rational thought continues to be elusive; picking the foreign object from its place and holding it before your eyes, you blink rapidly, attempting to wake enough to comprehend its identity and its presence. Between your fingers rests a plain shard of naught but gleaming white, no more than an ilm or two in length, far too thick to be glass, and not delicate enough to be a crystal.

Belatedly you understand; a piece of the white auracite? It had seemed to shatter into impossibly tiny pieces, but 'tis not outside the realm of possibility that one landed on your clothing or lodged itself in a crease in your pack.

Its presence draws you back to that day, memories yet as vivid and vibrant as if it only happened the past bell; in the untold depths of an abandoned Allagan research facility, the Ascians awaited you, the endless defiant even as they met their end. You’d a single auracite and two potential targets; the choice was made without hesitation. From the beginning, one paragon shadowed your every step; mayhap you might not be the legend you are today without his meddling, but you could no longer suffer Lahabrea's deadly manipulations, not with Hydaelyn at stake.  Bested by an adventurer once barely worthy of challenging his weakest creations, what terror Lahabrea must have felt at being imprisoned and compressed - having his very essence shattered - and at the abhorrent revelation that even eternity has an end, one as agonizing and cataclysmic as any Rejoining to Hydaelyn. There are few worse fates for one who relentlessly pursues his purpose. 

You’d scarce had time to come to terms with the fact that the woman, overcome with rage and disbelieving screams, would retaliate before Thordan ended her as well.

The sliver’s gleam fades against your palm as sleep summons you - or was its glimmer the trick of a half-conscious mind from the first? It matters not. Setting the pale thing down on your bedside table you roll over, nuzzling into the stack of pillows nigh as large as you and drawing your blanket over your head, drowning yourself in warmth, determined to ignore the world for just a few more hours as the fury of the storm howls relentlessly against Ishgard’s cold stone walls. 

With the blizzard as your lullaby, you drift off into satisfying dark once again.

_Bzzzzzzz._

_Bzzzzzz._

With a barely stifled moan you push yourself up, the linkpearl’s chime more intrusive in your bed-fortress than it has any right to be.

Your whimpered greeting is petulant at its most flattering; Cid wisely responds with polite disregard, but being woken proves to be the least of your worries.

A goblin primal.

_Twelve curse them all._


	2. A Little Late

The river teases at its shores, its course raging wider and deeper than during your pilgrimage through the Forelands, consequence of hard, prolonged rains that birth new life upon weathered soils.

This journey takes longer than the last; your party travels more leisurely than you’re accustomed to, compensating for the adventuring inexperience of the Scions' newest companion: a lalafellin scholar, come to aid in the search for your lost comrade. The more relaxed pace permits the glow of reminiscence, allowing you the freedom to lose yourself in Dravania’s unique atmosphere.

Ancient trees, sparse but large and thick with tops that blot the sky itself, with faded scars marring their alien trunks, inevitably foster the wildest of fantasies - and given what the histories they’ve witnessed, any might be correct.  You once mused upon on their age with Ysayle and Estinien - both as lost to you as time is upon ageless boughs. Yet in this place where time itself stills, where ageless dragons make their home, new companions take their place; perhaps these bonds will grow to be even stronger than those previously shared.

Ever forward. As it must be.

You could certainly be forgiven for the thickening of your usual silence. Even Alphinaud seems more sullen than usual, an awkwardness not lost upon the others in your entourage, and they, too, eventually fall into equal silence.

The clash of steel and spell interrupts somber reminiscence, echoing across smoldering wasteland.  Your party needn’t even glance at one another; without question, you draw your weapons in unison and increase your pace towards Loth ast Gnath.  You can but hope that you’re not too late to prevent whatever troublesome encounter Thancred finds himself in _this_ time.

Would that the scene greeting you be so predictable.

Fearlessly facing down Ravana’s latest incarnation, five adventurers battle with expertise and coordination greater than many of the expeditions you’ve led; intimately aware of their allies’ abilities, they cover weaknesses and react with almost unnatural speed. Mystery upon mystery; though Ravana, stronger than ever, falls easily before them, who among the Ascians remains yet active, encouraging these continuing summons of ever-growing power? Whoever it is seems to be taking great pains to conceal such efforts from you.

Your wandering mind snaps back to the present when the strangers address you, bearing antagonistic sneers, immediately dispelling the notion that they might be allies in your fight against the primals.  Nay, ‘tis clear they bear some grudge, mocking your inadequacies; who dares?

All too familiar vertigo sends you reeling; a spiral of dizzying grey overtakes your consciousness, as if in response to your query.

In an all-too recognizable scene, they gather, five in all, in an aetherial plane. A weakened Ascian - _Mitron_ , they know as his name - faces their judgement.  So they are as you.

“This day we reclaim the reins of history! This day we rid ourselves of the Ascians forever!” Such innocence is nigh heartwarming; the man lacks understanding about the impermanence of his actions. They would certainly benefit from what you’ve learned of the Ascians and their ilk, should they allow it.

Their leader’s boasts are met only with Mitron’s Ascian-typical angry subversive manipulations. “Fools playing at heroes, the lot of you. Is this how you think to save your world?” His chastisements find no mark this day, for the mortals know the taste of victory; what use are insecurities when such a trying journey is mere moments from its final completion?

The battleaxe shines with an aetherial Blade of Light, much as your own weapon once did a lifetime ago, banishing the darkness.

Drowning in memory and aether alike, your vision swims in white as you struggle against the Echo’s grasp; as a storm might wash a path away, the pound your head prevents realignment of sense and consciousness, aether swirling around you like an endless void until slowly, ever so slowly, do distant forms take shape, outlines barely more than delusions of the dying under Southern Thanalan’s sun.

Rapid blinks do little to aid your recovery, stomach rolling at unfocused memories of adventurers whose battles echo yours. Even clutching their heads from the Echo’s disorienting onslaught, the strangers regroup quickly; less hindered than you are by the vision, their discomfort proves dangerously temporary and their demeanor quickly reverts to hostility.

Mayhap the difficulty is their doing? Had they thought to sever mind from flesh?

Your other senses prove even more dulled than your sight, all but a few words lost in the whine of half-nothingness: “. . . It's not her. Take the. . .” “. . .ever been wrong bef. . .”

Though voices are muddled in the deluge of aether, you recognize the clear ring of battle. Through heavy lids, light burns; the blurred forms of your companions, scattered across your vision by the strangers’ assault, does little to soothe budding panic, but even worry for them fades as the sun’s sear invades all sense, burning pound making concentration nigh impossible. You can but squeeze your eyes shut and silently plead. _Just let them be safe. . . let it end. Stop. . ._

How long you remain incapacitated amidst the broiling darkness you know not, but eventually, a hand falls lightly upon your shoulder, the gentle path guiding you back to reality.

Thank the Gods that your companions remain unharmed, the strange warriors and their even stranger Echo banished, even without your aid.  Though the pound in your head no longer renders you inert, your vision still swims - but through the murk you see your group’s newest addition; the warmth in your breast rises, a smile gracing your lips.  Your voice fails, throat as parched as if you’d been screaming, but Thancred doubtless appreciates the gesture as you force unsteady muscles to do your bidding.

Ever the scholars, Krile and Alphinaud rush to your side, confirming your condition.

“H-hey, are you alright?”

“What did they do to you?”

They’ve more important issues to fuss over, your gaze sweeping the stronghold; the strangers may yet remain.  “I’m fine.” You bluff with as much confidence as you can muster, regardless of their inevitable disbelief.

Thancred interrupts, postponing any potential disputes, relief at your wellness setting his demeanor somewhere in between a smirk and a beam. “It seems I’m late.” The strangers' absence must be his doing; you return the smile in kind.

Though clearly disbelieving, Krile reluctantly returns her attention to the business at hand. “It appears these ‘Warriors of Darkness’ took great offense at our friend here. What could have angered them so?”

Warriors of _Darkness_? Had you not just -

But you fear even attempting to recall the vision through memory, lest the pain in your head rouse itself once more.

“There are a great many things they could have seen.” Y’shtola’s vague statement promises Krile elaboration of your exploits at a later time.

“They...Mitron.”  A name, the only morsel of valuable information that pierces the haze.  Through your companions’ bafflement, ‘tis clear they’ve even less of an understanding of the word than you. 

“Well then.” Recognizing that they’ll only receive nonsensical, fragmented answers, Alphinaud blessedly interrupts further interrogation. “Let’s return to Ishgard, shall we?”

You dare not object; a prolonged rest sounds heavenly.


	3. By the Sea

Molten fire consumes the horizon; liquid gold birthed by the sun’s fall sets the sea ablaze, the very waters of life as much an arbiter of death, indistinguishable from the flames devouring the land. Tall grasses on the cliff flicker with the breeze, specks of ash and ember dancing at their tips, looking to catch hold and further their seed of destruction. Flames lick a lone stone house, long emptied, forgotten by its occupants, the thatch of its roof fueling the ever-increasing inferno.

The sky reddens to blood as the sun dips below the horizon, but Calamity keeps Hydaelyn Herself alight.

A terrifying scene, truly, one that should well send you into a panic; the land itself screams and wails, the dead’s aether rending the barriers 'twixt life and the beyond.  Yet in this destruction, there is only beauty; your arms raise to the sky, greeting the new era as if ‘tis as a cascade of refreshing water rather than the firey rains of destruction. Elation fills your core, breaths heavy as lungs fill with scorching air, begging to burst forth and shatter, just as the lick of flames might at last topple the house’s final supports.

You awaken with a start, sweat slicked and back arched; parted lips release rapid pants, the warm glow spreading all too familiar disorienting satisfaction.

_Gods._


	4. Toasts, Tidings, and Tempers

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> While we generally strive for a neutral WoL, there are certain events in this chapter that your WoL might react differently to, either with more or less emotion and restraint. This is intentional; there's a reason for this dissonance, the WoL is _supposed_ to be acting oddly.

An invisible weight bears heavily upon your breast, hampering your movement and impeding your steps as might mud in a swamp. You’re no stranger to exhaustion, but suffering its effects regardless of the welcoming safety House Fortemps provides is. . . frustrating. Despite Ishgard’s noble comforts, sleep remained elusive; all but the faintest impressions of intrusive dreams have receded below the surface of your consciousness, leaving in their wake only dull, heavy insomnia and naught to show for it. 

‘Tis more cramped than you remember; smooth, age-worn walls that were once a comfort now bring only distaste. The Forgotten Knight smells of the previous night’s crowd, a permanent admixture of musty, faintly bile-scented air and spilled drink, but where once was revelry remains only the light crackle of fire and clink of glasses, only the cold drizzle outside providing any relief from repetitious, orderly stagnation.

Tataru had been firm with her invitation: the Scions are to host a celebratory brunch welcoming Thancred back into the fold.  At the time, agreeing to the meet up had seemed proper, yet glad as you are to see Thancred, you fear the listless mannerisms you exude might give the wrong impression.

As is expected, you offer a polite smile and a toast to the future, refusing to allow your dourness to ruin the event for everyone else. ‘Tis hard to muster excitement for the royal eggs and warm wine; the eggs are mediocre at best, runny with slightly overcooked salmon and sauce that’s little more than melted butter - it’s never been one of Gibrillont’s stronger dishes - but, favorably, the wine proves successful at dulling the growing pound in your head.  Blessedly, it aids in muffling your companions’ bland chatter into a dim buzz, save the occasional laughter at Thancred’s amusing anecdotes about his time alone in the wild communing with bears and nutkin.

Mercifully, your companions seem to understand the inadequacy of your recovery and refrain from pulling you into conversation any more than is necessary.

Less mercifully, a boisterous Temple Knight who bursts through the Forgotten Knight’s entrance shows none of the same courtesy, the echo of his sollerets clattering down the stairs consuming your full awareness. Your fingers tense and curl, balling into tight fists under the table in effort to maintain a polite demeanor.

His nasal voice amplifies the pain in your already-pulsing head.  “Lady Lucia bids you come at once - the Lord Commander - he’s been wounded!”

Without awaiting your response, the knight clatters back up the stairs with even more noise than before. The Scions’ heavy footfall reveals their distress, rushing into action without a second thought. Always the mammet, naught but a tool of their bidding, even as your core breaks; seething anger bubbles within, demanding an outlet, and you are wont to oblige. You slap your wine glass off the table, sending the sour red liquid spilling hypnotically across the floor.

The others are halfway up the stairs when they realize you’ve remained in your chair, startled at the sudden total loss of decorum. They pause, staring, waiting, and silently condemning.

“I-I’m sure it was an accident.” Tataru jumps from her chair and searches for a rag behind the counter. “Don’t worry, I’ll take care of it.  Just see to the Lord Commander.”

It was no accident, but the niggling shame at your childish manner is overshadowed by further annoyance. Y’shtola glares, Alphinaud gapes, Thancred averts his eyes, Tataru pretends it never happened, yet none of them allow you an emotion of your own.

If a weapon bearing a mask of passive silence is their true desire, they shall have it; you finally stand and stride past your friends, leading them to the Congregation as though naught had happened.

Lucia delivers her report in a brisk manner that barely conceals growing distress; her affection for the Lord Commander has always been clear to all save the man himself, and at times it clouds her judgement. Your fellow Scions seem equally upset, but you find yourself numbed to the worry, instead musing on an image of a dark alley, early morning drizzle washing blood from the cracks between the paving stones. . .

Really, ‘twas an inevitability.

“I beg your pardon?” You needn’t more than at glance at Lucia to recognize budding fury. Had you said that aloud? _Why?_ Now is hardly the time.

“I mean to say. . .he very nearly lost his life in the Vault. Others have _died_ to permit Aymeric his idealism.” You cannot but shake your head. “He is too trusting.”

“That _trust_ has benefited you and your organization greatly -”

“As if Ishgard didn't reap the rewards of that investment -”

“Ladies!” Thancred’s voice cuts through your bickering. “You mentioned arson. Perhaps we can continue this discussion after the city is doused? We must find the source of these attacks.”

“We should split up. Examine the sites of the fires, question witnesses, and identify anyone with potential knowledge.” As if the argument had never taken place, Alphinaud deliberates on a familiar plan of action.

“You two take the lower portion of the city.” Thancred gestures at Y’shtola and Alphinaud, then turns to you. “We’ll question anyone suspicious in the Pillars; you said one of the Fortemps sons is quite the gossip?”

The plan is agreeable; you nod and set off toward the Crozier, knowing full well where Emmanellain goes to be _seen_. For some time, Thancred allows you to keep your silence, but as soon as you’re out of earshot of the market goers, he begins his interrogation. “You seem careworn.”

“I didn't rest well.” Relief warms your breast; Thancred proves as understanding of your mood as ever. “And. . .we've been through a lot.”

“It sounded that way. Would that I was there to help.” Though barely more than a wisp, you fixate on Thancred’s regret, full attentions drawn to the darkest of his emotions. “Be certain to share some of your burden, hm?” He offers an empathetic smile. “After all, we've learned that unfortunate things happen when one of us runs himself ragged.”

His self-depreciation earns Thancred a returned smile and you continue on your way without further incident.

Sweet, unchanging Thancred. Still such insecurity resting beneath his air of confidence, ever working make amends for the myriad of wrongs weighing upon him.

Such devotion; it lightens your heavy heart.


	5. For Hate of the Star

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> The _Oracle_ quote we're using is from the 2016 New Year's prophecy.

In the beginning, before myth and legend, before Light and Dark, there was but the sea.

In the beginning, before man and hist’ry, Light and Dark were divided, the seas sundered in fourteen.

To the seas She cast Her children, for fear of the Moon.

For hate of the Star, to the seas He cast His doom.

 

Urianger's slender scholar's hands trace the familiar words held within the old - _ancient_ , by the wear of its pages - tome selected for him by the Emissary. The Ascian must have known that Urianger had memorized Master Louisoix’s writings on _The Gerun Oracles_ when guiding him through the library’s depths, into which Urianger had not had the pleasure to set foot for nigh on two decades, for he sought only to make a singular point: of all the knowledge in all the pages on all the shelves in this building, _this_ tome bears the long-sought truth Emissary touts - a truth which Urianger already knows above all others.

Urianger had thought the tale a charming eccentricity of his master's, with its unique hypothesis on Hydaelyn's origins offering an explanation for the lands’ cycles of hope and sorrow. Yet ‘tis _here_ the Emissary guides him, among all the other pages, to emphasize the importance of _these_ apocryphal pages. . .before leaving Urianger, once again, at the side of one Her children from a different shore of that very sea, the conclusion foregone that they are to work together to set the star to rights. With no intentions of assisting the Ascians with their “ardor,” Urianger’s is a perilously duplicitous infiltration.

“Well? Do you not _care_?” The gruff hyur who calls himself Arbert snaps, returning Urianger’s attentions to unpleasant observations and future challenges.

“Thou art certain of this vision?” The implications are dire indeed, though with the stated goals of these “Warriors of Darkness,” it is hard to imagine the reason for their anger.

“Is your head as soft as your hands? Think we’d be where we are if we couldn’t work out a vision? You’re being manipulated.”

No matter Arbert's confidence, Urianger doubts. Such a thing should be impossible for the gifted, shielded as she is by the Mother.

Urianger sets the _Oracles_ down on one of few remaining sturdy lecterns, freeing a musky cloud of dust that descends upon the moth-eaten carpets in lazy, thoughtful eddies. Be it truth or delusion, this information must be withheld from the enemy for as long as possible. “Thine intent is to bring about Calamity, is it not? I shall endeavor to learn more. . .yet should thy report prove true, thou but gainest allies to serve thine ends.”

Arbert narrows his eyes in displeasure, but quickly relents. “As you say. Now… our _friend_ in white obviously left me here to convince you -” He describes Elidibus with a sneer, unable to bring himself to say his former enemy's name for all of his distaste. But rather than continue, Arbert’s gaze jerks over to a dark corner of the room, hand raising cautiously toward the haft of his weapon, straining his senses to detect potential intrusions. “Strange world you have. Your shadows cast shadow and your light doesn’t. We shall continue this discussion when our privacy is assured.”

Urianger keeps his peace as Arbert takes his leave, blank stare fixated far beyond idly tracing fingers that roam worn letters etched into the leather of the _Oracles_ ’ cover.

The revelations of the day are extensive, yet one commands his attentions over all others.

Urianger lingers as long as he dares, carefully removing a few select tomes required for the coming research.


	6. Enclosure

Through haze you see it, a malformed visage just beyond the edge of your vision; the dark figure, blurred by soup-like fog, observes from the distance, moving as if to greet you.

Instinctively, you approach the stranger, only to to be stilled before making even a single footfall, impeded as if by nothingness. With trembling fingers you test the barrier, yet all they meet is unending _fire_ \- an unseen doom, both frigid and blazing, that steals your very essence with its touch. A trail of opacity in your wake, you endure the blaze with brief, fluttery probes up the smooth obstruction. Up and up your search leads, past sharp angles to the flat roof, and down once more.

A prison; this abhorrent tool is to be your coffin.

No - _No!_

The looming figure steps closer, bowing its head to look down upon you like a caged beast. Pounding at the barrier with an enraged snarl, its burn proves a small deterrent in face of rising panic. The shadowy captor offers naught save silence, but the flow of water over your feet is as much answer as you need.

As if in response to your unspoken query, water begins its gentle lap at your ankles, splashing back and forth against the cage's walls with your every movement. You captor means to _drown_ you? Foolishness - they’ll find you’re not such easy prey.

Clear waters flood the prison more hastily by the moment; its climb to your knees sets defiance in your breast. You’ll not be defeated by mere walls; you pound and pound, the burn intolerable, yet still you stubbornly continue your endeavor. Even beyond your limitations, you struggle against perfect sides and sharp corners, searching for vulnerabilities.

No tool is infallible, you must needs -

Ever and ever higher, the water rises, apathetic to the plight of its prisoner. It laps against your thighs, the chance of escape dwindling with each passing moment. Your jaw clenches; this ends _now._

With all the force you can muster, you throw your weight against the sides, uncaring of the agony searing your flesh. Such pains are a temporary setback, naught more. Even as your body breaks, still you force against it, slamming repeatedly with what little strength remains. Blinding agony proves secondary to survival; again and again you push, blood-blackened water splashing into your lungs, ragged gagging emphasizing the burn of muscles as they tear against the cage.

No. _Impossible._

Laboring to even stand, black waters lap to your navel, breaths hoarse between broken coughs.

And still, it rises.

In fury you scream, harsh and frustrated, for little else remains within your power, broken as you are.

Up and up, the water flows, as constant as a chronometer’s tick. Up. Up. _Up_. Screams give way to rapid, panicked breaths as you press against the unyielding ceiling, futilely searching for freedom.  The burn of its touch is distant now, your body well beyond pain, yet it sears all the same,  skin peeling, giving way to raw muscle, bone all but melting into the prison itself.

Relegated to only ilms, your entire world closes as you thrash and desperately gasp for the last remnants of hot, stale air, buying naught but an instant to inspect the entirety of your flawless dark prison - there _must_ be a way, this is not how your duties end, you’ve so much left to _do_ -

Through panic-blackened vision, in the last vestiges of consciousness as burning lungs collapse, the captor’s visage fills you with cold clarity.

And she bears your face.

Thrown violently back to consciousness, gasps mingle with the choked sobs of regrets found only within imminent death. Blankets cling to your legs, restraining you just as the liquid had.  Shoving them off with panicked flails, desperate enough that you strike the headboard, it takes an effort worthy of Rhalgr Himself to hurl you free from your prison, spilling burning limbs onto the floor. Refusing to heed rationality, breath leaves your lungs almost as soon as it enters, panicked exhales lightening your head until what little light seeps through the cracks swirls in your remaining vision, illuminating walls as bare as those that confined you.

Restricted -

Enclosed -

 _Pain_ -

Imposing, cold stone looms over struggling, frail flesh. Ilm by ilm the light dances up their heights; ilm by ilm, they slide closer, bearing down, crushing your bones until naught - not even essence - remains.

Nay - not again. _Never_ again.

Throwing your weight at the door, it gives easily - far easier than your prison - sending you reeling. Scrambling up from the floor, guided more by memory than sight, you flee an enemy that exists only in dreams.


	7. An Imperfect Vessel

For all their importance throughout history, there are frustratingly few resources regarding those who bear Hydaelyn’s blessings and Urianger has used his every contact to scour them all.

In a hushed tone, Arbert had spoken of a vision - an Ascian’s memories, lurking deep within their champion of light. By all rights, such a thing should be an impossibility; translations of reports found in the Mhachi Ark have been slow progressing, but within the depths of long-forgotten texts are chapters discussing the Echo’s sufficient protection against voidsent possession, presumably similarly to how it shields from tempering. Briefly, Urianger had considered the possibility that temporary vulnerability, stemming from the Warrior’s loss of the Blessing of Light, may have provided an exploitable weakness for the Ascians, but other gifted members of their order possess the same protection against tempering without bearing Hydaelyn’s own protection.

And perhaps most importantly: each of the Paragons who challenged the Warrior of Light in battle had fallen. Who would be left to claim her body as his own?

Urianger had been full ready to dismiss the vision as a misinterpretation until his eyes had passed over a rumpled pile of books and effects, nigh untouched underneath the thinnest layer of dust, in his small library’s corner: Moenbryda’s unfinished documentation on auracite. One of these had been a collection of Garlean faerie tales in which the heroes of old harnessed a power within the stones, which they called auracite; the fallen child-Warrior, too, had made mention of stones bearing the same name playing a role in his world’s demise at his introduction. Should the auracite prove to be a sinister gift meant to undermine their efforts rather than an instrument of darkness’s downfall. . .

The matter warrants this last line of inquiry before being put to rest.

Arriving at the Waking Sands by night as requested, Unukalhai’s fragile frame lacks the typical imposing nature of those concealing themselves with robe and mask, but Urianger well knows the folly of underestimation. “A curious summons, Urianger.  Why such haste?”

Urianger once again mulls over carefully-chosen words. Deception requires he appear to trust the boy when near the others, but privately Urianger instead practices diligent caution; his every word may be reported to Unukalhai's master. “I require assistance in my research. Wouldst thou speak of thy star's fall?”

A stiff nod reveals Unukalhai’s anguish, yet if his desire is genuine, he is obligated to share his knowledge so that further tragedy might be avoided.

“When first we were introduced, one of thy words struck familiarity: auracite. We, too, have researched this stone’s use, and there do exist tales of heroes wielding power within them. I would hear of the role it played in thy home.”

So delayed is Unukalhai’s response that Urianger questions whether the boy heeds him at all.  “I shall tell you all I can, but. . . Urianger, you mustn’t be swayed by these stones. Their temptation is so insidious -” he shakes his head. “It must _not_ happen again.”

The severity settles cold in the pit of Urianger’s stomach as he urges the boy on with a nod.

“On my star, the Ascians operated much the same as they do here - teaching methods and offering encouragement to certain factions so that they might summon their gods as primals. Hydaelyn's chosen thought to halt the ever-increasing threat of repeated summonings by capturing the primals within auracite, rather than allowing the fiends’ essences to be freed for new rituals.”

Already Urianger's mind sets itself to categorizing this new information. “New incarnations were unable to take form whilst the old remained imprisoned?”

“Urianger. . .” Unukalhai's tone holds clear warning.

“My pardons. I do but hope for the day we might similarly cease the escalation of such foul rituals. Prithee, continue.”

“Understand that Hydaelyn’s influence over my star was far weaker than that of the other fragments.  Her crystals, Her blessings - they were not enough. So desperate were they to save their world, Her children began to wield the auracite in battle.” Wisps of longing regret tinge Unukalhai’s tale, memories bared heavily within his heart. “The vessels proved imperfect. The primals’ essences… infected them, set in motion a kind of corruption.”

“Corruption?” Anxiety claims Urianger, so alert that even the faintest hints of the desert night’s chill sends his stomach tumbling and his extremities tingling; Unukalhai but nods, seemingly too absorbed in his melancholy to notice the turmoil raging within Urianger. Silently cursing the boy for ending his tale at its most important juncture, Urianger nevertheless refrains from pressing, certain his interest in such specificity would be noted.

“With the fall of Hydaelyn’s chosen, the darkness took hold of my star in totality. The rest you know.” His tale ended, Unukalhai pauses, gaze fixed upon slow curls of candle smoke against sandstone; though his emotions are shielded beneath his mask, small fingers play at the hem of his sleeves, revealing well-hidden unease that matches Urianger’s own. “Urianger, what prompted this interest in auracite?”

Careful silence betrays nigh as much as withheld words, Urianger knows well, yet still his tongue refuses to form the sounds.

“You spoke of tales, but it cannot still be in use. . . Urianger?”

The pound of his heart hitches breath in his lungs; he dares not refuse a direct question, instead meting out just enough truth to sate the boy without betraying his cause for concern. “Our esteemed Warrior hath twice employed auracite in battle. In both cases, the stones were shattered beyond recovery, her aim to utterly destroy that which had been captured within.”

“Good; she has no need to harness their strength to supplement hers. Should aught but a shard survive to corrupt the individual who next claims it. . .” Unukalhai deflates, overcome with displeasure. “What could possess her to wield such a tool despite the might at her command?”

After brief, though inevitably noted, hesitation, Urianger relents; even should the Emissary learn of the Scions’ weapon, for the Ascians to guard against it should remain an impossibility. “'Tis the only way to bring end to an aetherial being otherwise eternal.”

Immediate understanding stuns Unukalhai into silence and he briefly retreats into his thoughts. “. . .I see.”

A fascinating revelation; had he not known they had found a way to end his master's kind? Unukalhai’s relationship with Elidibus is perhaps not as close as originally surmised, a sole, brief flutter of hope birthed from an otherwise dismal night. “I must needs put to paper the words thou hast shared with me this day. Shouldst thou recall aught else of relevance, full glad would I be to add to my research.”

“Of course. Good evening.”  He barely hears. The slow patter of tiny boots mimics the dread beat of Urianger’s heart; as much a shadow as the master he serves, a scrap of paper fluttering behind Unukalhai as he hastily passes remains the only evidence of his passage.

Heavy breaths billow Urianger’s cowl; overcome with unsteady paces and trembling fingers, returning full attentions to his writings is naught but an exercise in futility.

_Infection. Corruption. Should aught but a shard survive. . ._

Far from the final line of questioning before putting the matter to rest, the situation instead proves more dire still.


	8. Frostborne Memories

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> As with all chapters from here out, there may times the WoL acts strangely or irritably. These are intentional.

Through silence you wander, aimlessly enduring the depths of Ishgard’s clear, frigid night, in futile hopes that suffusing fatigue eventually overcomes your body so that you might finally return to your chambers in peace. The hour grows late and even the sturdiest of Temple Knights warm themselves over small hearths, awaiting the change in shifts.

You are not nigh as lucky; so intrusive was your dream, intimately familiar yet just as agonizing as the first, that in your hasty, terrified scramble you failed to pull on any of the wool finery provided by House Fortemps, and on this night a primally deep chill sets into ancient stone, the embrace of cold’s tendrils overcoming exhaustion.

Returning for them now is impossible. They remain folded in that room, with _those_ binding walls, _that_ prison -

You shudder, breath clouding thickly in the air, clinging to lashes in a fine icy mist.

Of course it had only been a dream.  Of course. Yet upon your awakening it had been so real that breath escaped you; your flesh knew none of the bed’s comforts, only the remnants of confinement’s burn - its _pressure_ \- crushing -

Another deep breath, another billowy cloud. The chill stings your breast from within, but ‘tis a welcome, refreshing pain.  You live. You can breathe. An out of place laugh erupts from you, subsiding as suddenly as it arose.

There are no walls here; you are free. Another frigid breeze caresses you, reminding you of - of what? Of something. . .

At the edge of your hearing, light, quick footsteps crunch against snow, alerting you to intrusion, and memory fades back against tense awareness; straining to listen yet refraining from acknowledging the intrusion, you cannot but hope that the footsteps’ owner will pass you by, believing you lost in thought. Yet the fates are ever unfavorable; the stranger’s pace slows as they approach, seemingly as wary of you as you are of them.

You finally turn, lamenting the inevitable confrontation.

“Well! Can't say I expected to see you out for a walk.” Unfamiliar though you might yet be, the newcomer’s greeting is syrup-sweet and friendly; Krile totters toward you wearing a reassuring smile.

What is she _doing_ here? Your exhaustion is enough; there is no need for you to shoulder whatever burden has ripped sleep from her grasp as well. All the same, she receives a return smile, as is _expected_.

“Ah… I’ve interrupted you. My apologies.” The hurt look on the lalafell’s face reminds you of her gift; with such prenatural empathy, Krile must sense how unwelcome her intrusion is.

With no desire to indulge her self-pity, you instead feign ignorance of her disappointment, conversing as if she hadn’t spoken. “What brings you here?”

Krile immediately brightens, chattering about the troubles weighing upon her of late. Displaced from a destroyed homeland and thrown into the chaos of Eorzean life, the friend she had hoped to meet upon her arrival absent, Krile had been seeking someone new to confide in. Despite the disinterest she clearly detects from her listener, you’ve provided her the ideal opportunity.

“Indeed.”

Just what you’d hoped to avoid. On she goes; she’d recently heard some embellished tale of your victory over the self-proclaimed god-king of Ishgard and expresses her awe; she laments the conditions of the peasants of the Brume; she hopes you might find Minfilia soon; she isn’t sure she’s fitting in with the Scions.

“Nonsense. Y’shtola seems to enjoy your company well enough. . .” Saying nothing of the others. Particularly you.  Particularly now.

She’s amazed at the aether concentrations of this land; she wonders whether Sharlayan will ever take back the city that has since been claimed by Rowena and the goblins. . .

“Perhaps. They left an entire library here, after all.”

Time and again you idly agree, only half heeding her rambling. The breeze picks up, and you tighten your arms against your chest. There was something you had been trying to remember -  something in the cold. What was it. . .something from. . .Coerthas? No. . . There is a vivid sense of a cool hand on your cheek, but where, when? _Who_?

Blissful silence falls upon the night abruptly enough that the lack of incessant nattering draws you from your memories. “My pardons - I want for rest and my mind wandered. You were saying?”

Krile sways, holding her head in her hands and blinking furiously; perhaps she was struck by a stray pebble carried by the bracing winds. Eyes wide and unblinking, Krile stares at you, her expression calling to mind flighty antelopes in the Shroud, poised to dart away at first sight of a large boar or other predator. “I - I should - apologies.”  Krile all but flees, pushing past you and leaving with far more haste than is polite, particularly given your patience in entertaining her insecurities.

No matter. The eastern sky has already begun its slow fade from black to grey; perhaps an early-arriving merchant will have a selection of luxurious coats for your perusal.


	9. Fate's Shepherd

Such passion he bears for his purpose.

“Master.” In terse and desperate disobedience Unukalhai calls.  Auspicious are the fates that brought the boy to him; he takes to his role commendably, though he has yet to master its guise.

Or, mayhap, any of the proper discretion.

Yet those are lessons for another time; if the boy is so flustered that he lacks due diligence in his summoning, his concerns deserve Elidibus’ full attentions.

“Auracite is being employed on the Source.” Bereft of control, Unukalhai’s voice breaks; expected though it might be that the topic distresses him, panic serves no purpose.

“Calm yourself.  Tell me what you’ve learned.”  A steadying hand on the boy’s shoulder suffices for consolation, trembles subsiding into deep breaths.

“The Warrior of Light uses it as a tool to -”  Though brief, his hesitation is noted. “- to end Ascians.”

Such is the tenacity of man, a merciless ingenuity ever focused upon forging instruments of destruction.

Unable to contain himself, impassioned pleas overcome Unukalhai’s rationality. “Master! We must stop -”

Unukalhai remains a child in many ways; time will set him to rights, his patience yet to bloom. “How did you come upon this information?”

“Urianger’s summons; he asked me of the auracite.”

“You spoke of its properties with the scholar?” Then the Scions seek knowledge of their tool. If they wield auracite ignorant to its dangers, such fears may prove legitimate; balance’s threshold might well be crossed if the thirteenth’s corruption is repeated.

“I warned against its use.” He nods.

“Then there’s naught else for us to do.” His shoulders tense under Elidibus’ grasp, dissatisfaction settling upon his demeanor.  Even now the boy struggles with his emotions - yet such purity is why he is well suited for his role in the Light. The Scions cannot but trust his sincerity; none dare gainsay Unukalhai’s determination.

As they couldn’t Lahabrea’s.

That failure, too, cannot be repeated.  There are benefits to putting the heart at ease, assuaging any remaining doubts so that Unukalhai does not act on his own. “You’ve done well coming to me with this.  Fear not. If their course proves undesirable, we will act.” Elidibus smiles, small comfort that it might bring to the boy with nothing.  “It will not happen again.”

Corruption is a product of the False Gods - of aether incompatible with mortal essence - but the auracite would have been touched by his kind. The corruption might instead -

Such is previously unwritten; ever does fate twist, twining as it must throughout balance.  What a fascinating turn of events.

There is much to anticipate in these coming moons; if Elidibus might guide its growth. . .

Mayhap ‘tis not so terribly unfavorable.


	10. Darkness Clad in Steel

Through the distorted fog of darkness you step, emerging into the realm of unnatural lucidity.

‘Tis a familiar memory this time, rather than an unknown, eldritch horror, and you dare to hope; mayhap this night will pass less fretfully than the others. Yet even that thought bears ill tidings, for awareness that the dream is, in fact, a dream is new. 

Be it through dream’s or memory’s distortion you witness, once again, a scene long since seared into your mind: the complete devastation wrought by Ultima, the spell of incomprehensible power that warped the Praetorium into uninhabitable wasteland, a ring of flames marking the boundary of Hydaelyn’s shield.

Yet not all is as it should be.

Blindingly burning flames give off no heat; absent is the sweat that once slicked your frame after the ferocious struggle, absent is the smoke that once filled heavy breaths, absent is the roar of inferno’s blaze or the slow creak of the warmachine’s failing joints.

Be it dream or memory, there is but numbness, an all-enveloping shroud diminishing known sensations.

Before you, the towering Ultima Weapon looms,  broken and silent; drawn like vilekin to light, you approach, footsteps silent against the ruin. There had been no opportunity to examine Weapon before, your every encounter antagonistic, and tentatively, you reach out, stroking black steel with naught but your fingertips.  As if in response to unspoken query, beneath your hand flutters a biomechanical beat, emanating from deep within, as if it seeks to respond to your touch but is powerless to do so.

Stilled as it is, one might never know the ease with which it tore through its fearsome foes, nor comprehend the strength of a shield so powerful Hydaelyn Herself struggled to break it. Such beauty its dormant power holds.

So many plans, countless years of work - all gone into this glorious beast of destruction.

Of _salvation_.

. . .Salvation?

The intrusive thought takes you aback, but. . .it cannot be denied that all power may be used for good or ill - Weapon’s being no exception.

Nor yours.

 _A tool of the Gods_. An unashamed musing as equally intrusive as the last, for what are you but a tool of a greater power, kindred to the beast that pulses beneath your hand?

The fire closes around you, searing away remaining fear of the broken tool; in acceptance, there’s naught but serenity.

Beyond the dream’s lull, a crunch - no louder than a step, but in the unnatural silence it might well be a warship’s roar - interrupts your peace.

And still, you’ve no uncertainty in this place; Praetorium is host to your victory, you’ve power over any dreams here.

You turn to the source of the sound, devoid of hesitation.

In regality he composes himself, robes blowing in imperceptible winds; unsurprising though his arrival might be, for this is _your_ dream and he is naught but another memory inside it, you’d have done well to anticipate his presence - for it was his presence here, more than Gaius’ and Ultima’s, that made you the Warrior of Light in the eyes of Eorzea’s populace. Unwavering is his stillness, bearing feigned patience as his gaze roams; drawn ever taut, his last vestiges of control unravel when he finally meets your eyes.  Concealed though his features might be, the malice and confidence are clear in his demeanor, no different from any other time you encountered him; ever are his kind creatures of habit - probing, ever prying, for vulnerabilities so that they might spread their chaos - a predictability that has thus far proven accommodating.

But no darkness flows through him, no summoning heeds his call; not even _he_ can claim audacity to challenge you alone at the height of your power, you needn’t -

The force of unnatural weight slams you back into Weapon, an assault of unrelenting strength forcing air from your lungs in a pained snarl.

 _This is not how it was._ This is _your_ dream, you’ve control here.

Envisioning the victory you know is fated, you struggle to break invisible binds; no chains rub your wrists raw, no ropes bind your feet in effort to prevent kicking; nary even an immobilizing lance of darkness pierces your breast to steal your breath away.

Nay, your breaths come easily, ‘tis your voice that eludes you and the lethargic sap of invasive darkness seeping through your muscles that incapacitates you. An impossibly imposing wall of misty black aether clings to you like film, soaking into flesh and commanding your submission as virulently as you command its release.

Dread wells in your breast; as if darkness steals away the earlier lucidity, you cannot but question whether this is neither dream nor memory, but something else entirely.

His power - ‘tis _impossible._  Not even when he broke the barriers of his soul with his companion did he bear such indomitability.  It far surpasses that of the host in which he should reside during this memory - and you’ve sparred with Thancred enough to know such feats are far beyond his capabilities, even on his best days.

 _Thancred_. Nay, ‘tis not his face he bears, as he did when you previously challenged him  in this place. Even behind cowl and mask you recognize the difference in his lips and jaw; so, too, does his body differ, height and build lacking the familiarity of your Scion companion.

It matters little; his identity is clear regardless. That mask, those robes, frustrating your every effort from the beginning. . .

This time, he refines his macabre strategy, your imprisonment hauntingly reminiscent of nights past.

Shivers of frustration course your veins; struggle as you might, there’s no solace to be found in his unrelenting clutches; squirms avail you naught, only serving to deepen the wicked smirk growing on his lips.  With a single step he closes the distance between predator and prey, drawing his face so near to yours that wisps of breath displace stray hairs.  His lips move but form no words and in one panicked instant, the world stills, his hand leisurely roaming across the bare - _bare? Is that right?_ \-  skin of your neck.

Again you squirm, shivering in revulsion at the tendrils of darkness lapping at your limbs. Again, you prove the futility of resistance.

Nay, you’ll not submit, not when you’ve longed for the opportunity to free yourself from his meddling. A sentiment he clearly shares - absent is his typical onslaught of shadow and fire, the simple physical approach as effective as it is unfamiliar.

Encircling your neck, his hands cling and his fingers dig, as if seeking to impale you with claws that prove more than ornamental.

A force unbecoming of him, but ever has he done what is necessary.

Through dread, panic grows.  Something is different; absent is predictability, death’s attendant embodying only chaos. Futilely you squirm against him, harsh pants revealing your fear even when your features do not, your heart’s rapid beats emphasizing the pounding flutter of your pulse within his unyielding grasp. ‘Tis as if you move not at all; unnaturally strong, your kicks, your punches, your prying - naught affects him, your resistance akin to a pebble’s attempt a damming a maelstrom.

The edges of your sight blurring with each shallow breath, each beat of your heart further swirls what remains of your vision; red melts into brown, succumbing to the blackness that devours them wholly.  He knows the depths of your weakness and, with its progression, he strikes.

In a brief instant of desperation your basal senses return; the pressure of his elbow against your chest, the continual tightening of his grasp, preventing life-giving breath - you know them well, almost as well as the silken material of his cowl, and red - _so much red_ \-  so near that you feel the weight of his mask on your face - nay, _everything_ of him.

The ring of fire closes around you, building within your chest. No more panicked pants pass your lips - nary a peep forms from you at all; nay, all that interrupts blissful silence are his rapid, anticipatory breaths on your cheeks - a fitting final lullaby.

Deeper and deeper, darkness falls, numbing chill dousing immolating inferno; in struggle, there is only futility; in void, the release of ecstasy.

At the brink of nothingness, you smile.

Through naught but tenacity the pestilence persists, but by your hand the purge reaches its inevitable, pitiful, conclusion.

How much longer must you face such opposition? Trembling fingers tug pitifully against clawed gloves; fingernails that once split and bled from the sheer force of struggle now offer little more resistance than a newborn babe’s grasp.

Such pointless efforts; the rebellious attempt is rewarded only with a tightened grasp.

Beneath the impenetrable grip, life begins its fade; what was once an erratic, rapid pulse slows; instead of challenging you, arms flail weakly through the air before falling limply.  Despite the specter before you, your foe’s end was writ moons ago. It is long past time for this charade to conclude; no more than a push will bring an end to this remnant -

Light leaves tear-stung eyes, her face red with welling blood, her frail, slender neck crushing under your fingers -

How exquisite, this fated conclusion. How tender, this intimate mockery.

Fire blooms in your lungs, disrupting your satisfaction with such intensity that you almost loose your grip; ragged gasps do little to stymie growing agony - nor do they still victory’s bursting elation. With failure, anguish; with victory, satisfaction; euphoria clashes with despair, vying for supremacy over your focus.

In unrestrained chaos, the dream implodes, collapsing into roiling dark and throwing you back to your bed with violent gasps, so heavy and hard that dizzy blackness almost reclaims you. Tears’ wet trails mar your cheeks and you raise a hand to wipe them, only to be jolted to full awareness when you inadvertently stab a small cut into your cheek.

With hypnotized sluggishness, you bring your hand forward for examination. . . . _Gloves?_ Blood smears taint otherwise the pristine silver metal that makes up. . .claws? Every motion during your brief analysis draws greater attention to a soft, luxurious fabric fully enveloping your body, so light that it barely seems present at all. Even your feet bear unfamiliar boots that you’re unlike to fall into bed wearing.

_Oh gods, what is - get them off, get them off -_

Throwing the covers aside, you all but leap out of bed and frantically search for edges of fabric to tear away, yet bare skin and the thinnest trail of blood are all you find.


	11. A Mortal Folly

Strewn across the grass with more disarray than Idyllshire in its earliest moons of reconstruction, your pack blows limply in the teasing breeze, fully emptied of its contents. Once eagerly anticipated, your newly acquired equipment instead thoroughly sours your mood; the materia set aside for it seems to have been left in Ishgard, your glamour prisms are nowhere to be found, and in the process of hunting for them, _everything_ has tumbled free, spilling into rain-drenched grasses and thick muds. Instead of celebrating, there’s naught to do but hunt for the archaic bone tokens and valuable mechanical debris that formerly filled your sack amidst the rubble. Twelve help you if the food you’d packed is contaminated; the gil it will take to replace some of the ingredients. . .

‘Twould not be so bloody awful if you could see clearly, but fog and wetness blur the edge your vision after yet another exhausting night interrupted by terror.

A deep, self-pitying sigh resonates from your chest; lethargy emphasized by defeat drains the energy from your limbs as you drop unceremoniously to the ground, retrieving smaller items from amongst broken marble; the dull ache of stone stabbing into your knees and shins heralds future bruises, but you press on, regardless, as you ever do.

Over and over and over yet more, your hands roam, until mud seemingly clings to every ilm of clothes and flesh both. By the time the afternoon rains begin their fall, you’ve nigh given up; the clothing that fell from the pack when you were searching it, including the newest piece that cost you a wealth of tomestones, all need washing and repairing now. ‘Tis as if the gods themselves make mockery of you; exhaustion is not nigh enough to sate their humors - nay, you must needs continue to dance to their whims, no matter the filth they drag you through.

For a moment, you limply stare at the pile, intimately aware of growing, frustrated tears that you refuse to let loose.

Wallowing deeply in petty miseries, you fail to notice the stray passerby until she stoops over, as unperturbed by the mud and rain as a wavekin, helping collect your remaining belongings and organizing your pack; Y’shtola offers you a weak smile as she hands over a half dozen tiny, colorful bottles of sweet potions, some now worthless, having lost their caps, their contents emptied into the dirt.  “Are you well?”

You scoff; obviously not. Yet all traces of malice escape you, as muffled by the blank dullness of exhaustion as your half-broken whisper. “Naught goes as planned today.”

She nods thoughtfully, smile pulling up just one corner of her mouth as she continues her assistance. “We all have days such as those. I find the best remedy is a hot bath and a nap.”

The mere mention of sleep rouses a brief fit of vulnerability, stirring longing deeply enough within that it stings your eyes; weak, fumbling fingers lacking dexterity almost cause you to drop your items anew.  “I’m unable to rest.”

“All the more reason you must. No obligation is -” A stray, rebellious, tear breaks loose of its prison, barely visible in the misty rain, its sluggish trail down your cheek interrupting whatever wisdom Y’shtola imparts to soothe your worries, finally giving her pause. “- greater than that to yourself. . .Goodness, what troubles you so?”

You shake your head. How could you explain fully without revealing the depths of madness unto which you slip? “Dreams. Nightmares. Every night, without fail.”

“‘Tis only natural to find yourself plagued by such troubles after the traumas you have endured.” Y’shtola lapses into pensive silence at the thought, only daring to speak after minutes of silence. “After the incident at the Waking Sands, Yda and I were left alone to -” She hesitates, as if the memory nigh overcomes her once more. “. . . I dreamt of their blood for moons; doubtless she did as well. I only recovered after everyone was safe, and even then only with time.”

Her tales of woe are of little relevance; you gifted Y’shtola the time she took to mend herself, that she might mourn while others labored. Yet telling her so would be crass and you content yourself with dispelling her false equivalencies. “It’s never been to this extent before.” Idly you touch the small, lingering scab at your cheek, the sole confirmation that your most severe incident, necessary evidence that the dreams are more than simple fantasies; yet, should it be within her power to aid you, you hesitantly elaborate. “There are. . . other effects as well.”

After passing you a miraculously intact dessert, Y’shtola considers your tale.  “Perhaps a spell?  Might I investigate?”

Full glad that the opportunity presents itself, you nod in acquiescence, standing so that you might grant her easier access. She brushes off dirt-stained hands as best she can and steps forward, habitually closing her eyes, unnecessary  though the action might be. A bubble of painfully bright light forms between her fingers, setting upon your chest; flickery winds dance alongside water’s smooth cascades as Y’shtola begins her search for abnormalities, aether roaming as if through will of its own. 

Such examinations are standard procedure for any healer or chirurgeon, and yet, ‘tis all wrong; absent is the spell’s familiar, cooling soothe, in place of each gentle touch, tendrils of foreign aether dig harshly into your essence, probing away as if she lays your innards bare, rummaging through your organs while you yet draw breath. It takes all your willpower to restrain yourself from throwing Y’shtola off you; Gods it _burns_.

If the fates favor you, her spells simply scour you clean; surely all will be well after the invasive ailment passes. Such small hopes do little to stymie the trembles coursing your flesh or calm the building retch in your throat.

Only after an eternity does Y’shtola cease, her search complete, and with offered respite you all but collapse into her arms.  “There’s nothing; I’ve detected no lingering magicks or curses. Your aether has suffered some disruption, but ‘tis no small surprise given the symptoms you’ve described.” You’ve done well at hiding the suffering inflicted by her intrusion, it seems, if Y’shtola’s reassuring smile is to be believed.  “You are hale; if there is an ailment, ‘tis of the spirit.” 

She dismisses you as she might a child who demands attention with made-up hurts that might be healed by kisses.  You are _not_ well. If she cannot see that -

“Listen to me.” You nearly pull away in disgust at the patronizing touch on your arm; Y’shtola presumes to lead you to wisdom she believes only she can provide - as if you hadn’t thought your lack of rest could be helped by rest. “You _must_ set down your burdens and allow yourself time to make peace with all you’ve been through, as must we all.”

“ _What_ time? It will soon be dark. . .” A disorienting pang of déjà vu briefly assaults you, commanding you to remember the last time you spoke those words. “No one else cares to take upon themselves the many burdens I bear.”

“Peace. You know we do all we can.“ Her demeanor takes on a subtle edge. “There is plenty of risk and glory to share; you needn’t claim it all for yourself. The next adventure will wait for you and, if it does not, there are others who are just as eager to prove themselves or earn easy coin.” She pauses, mouth set in a judgemental, hard line. “You _will_ meet your end by way of a fatal mistake if you insist on this reckless course.”

Surely she daren’t believes you’re with the Scions solely for gil and glory, not after everything  -

Anger’s flame again flickers before it sputters and collapses in the face of exhaustion, leaving behind only cold, numb clarity. “Very well. The next time I am called upon to slay a strengthened primal, I shall contact you to do so instead, yes? Or when I am asked to investigate a void-infested airship, solve a beast tribe’s internal conflicts, help train the grand companies, and explore an abandoned ruin at the behest of some mortal in over their head, wanting for a rescue. You are just as _capable_ of meeting _all_ of these demands, are you?”

“‘ _Mortal_?’ Do you truly believe yourself beyond error?” ‘Tis unlike Y’shtola to bear such open hostility in her reproach, neither is she like to spontaneously change the subject; her anger must be seated deeply indeed. Yet scour as you might, memories of what was said in rage’s depths elude you, as words are wont to do when their speaker suffers exhaustion.

Pregnant silence only becomes heavier at Y’shtola’s unwavering glare, further condemning you to guilt by the moment; only when her impatience wells to its head, unable to be contained any longer, does she turn, dismissing you with a flip of her hand as she walks away. “Mayhap you should visit an Alchemist; they might recommend a potion to cure such delusions.”

Surely she misheard; even blinded by anger, you _couldn’t_ have said anything to imply such arrogance. . .could you?

As if emphasized by their journey through deep canyons, whispery laughter from goblin and man alike dances through Idyllshire’s lonely winds. Even soaked as you are, you barely feel the rain.

Y’shtola had hoped to bring solace and comfort, but if the newfound pounding of your head proves anything, ‘tis that you would have been better left alone. Solitude and silence as your sole desires, you hasten to gather your last remaining belongings so that you might find a dark room away from the bustle of this obnoxiously burgeoning frontier town.

And while her suggestion had been spat out in anger with an insinuation that you want for sanity, perhaps an alchemist’s mixture may be in order - one that bypasses dreams would surely be of use.


	12. Succor Midst Sorrow

Despite the cling of a cold sweat, you pull the covers up and rest your aching head back into the pillow, your heart’s shallow, rapid beats warning you of dangers to come.

The clarity to reject the incoming onslaught proves elusive and you instead choose endurance; holding in the deep inhales that fill your lungs, you attempt to push fear aside, like you might you might in anticipation of coming battle: _They are naught but dreams. They cannot hurt you._ Slowly, calmly, the breath leaves you, commanding the tension to leave with it. It _must_. You’ll not allow the nightmares to become self-fulfilling prophecies.

Several repetitions see your heart calmed enough to embrace the smothering warmth of your blankets. As haze billows over your consciousness and you drift more deeply down into your luxurious mattress, fantasies frolic and dance of their own accord; no single memory remains in your awareness long enough to grasp, you can but watch them pass, vigilant but passive as the shadows slowly overtake you.

The buttery scent of the baked fish served at the Forgotten Knight tonight -

The stone walls of that very building -

Patterns of light cast onto the stone walls of the Vault -

The glitter of a shattered crystal spread across the sky -

Overturned crates of crystals half-buried in the desert sands -

A candle in the Waking Sands -

Now blown out, armor clatters behind you -

The room plunged into darkness -

An impossibly dark ruin.

Meandering steps take you through familiar corridors. Only the barest hints of light exist in this place, fragile rays incapable of permeating deeply enough to illuminate the passage; 'tis of no matter, they are ever unneeded by any occupants, the path as known to you as your very breaths. Passing an unseen column that seems to reach the stars themselves, you reach out, reveling in its flawlessly smooth surface; no sound mars the silence - no breeze, no chatter, no footsteps save your own, ‘tis but an empty plane of naught but peace and warmth.

How you’ve missed this place.

Steady, deliberate paces carry you into a favored chamber off the main hall. Plans were made here, successful and not; discussions, debates, decisions, they'll all soon begin anew. You need but more time - more control.

This is far from the first time moderation has been necessary, but it may prove the most demanding - and such challenges certainly leave you with little patience to spare for _this_ absurdity.

Under the guise of reminiscence, you drift into a near corner of the room, out of view from the corridor. You’ve been under watch nigh since your arrival. You’ve no intention of indulging his nonsense; if _he_ wishes to observe, he shall enter and reveal himself.

He does not leave you waiting overlong.

White cowl all but gleaming in the faintest light, Elidibus steps just over the chamber's threshold.

He knows your strategy, just as you know his game. Elidibus stills without turning, expecting a coming break in silence; you’re not of mind to indulge him, not this night. Wait he does, ever cautious, but even Elidibus has his limits and, tightly bound as they are, his restraints are oft shorter with you. It's not long before he succumbs to rare impatience: “You live.”

“Of course.”

At the sound of your voice, he moves to meet you face to face; a careful, calm exterior belies a turbulent mix of emotions beneath. Caution. Hope. Irritation. Exuberance. Hesitation tempers his reaction to a whispered musing. “How fortuitous.”

“Fortune had naught to do with it.” Only here, of all places, would you admit such folly. Every misfortune that could befall you did so, rendering you incapable of leaving even this limited vessel.

Elidibus might take from that as he will, ever evasively trodding his own path, but you acted only out of necessity - necessity that he refused to accept.

In judgement, does Elidibus ponder; absent of unwavering certainty, when he last displayed such uncharacteristic hesitation Nabriales had met his end.

So it comes as no surprise that he seeks to confirm your existence; as much of the Source as you, Elidibus should well be indistinguishable from yourself, and yet -

What should rightly be a reunion of freely flowing essence is instead invasive, once one now invariably bound unto two; as Hydaelyn once broke the precepts and severed Him from His dominion, so too do Her barriers sever His servants.

Unlike ever before, Elidibus’ remains a recognizable touch, naught more.

“I see.” ‘Tis clear that time will not set wrongs to rights, only Rejoining might and - Elidibus interrupts your musing. “Why have you returned, when your role in the north remains unfinished?”

A fool question, one Elidibus surely knows the answer to. You were -

Stopped short, the solution, buried deeply within disjointed memories, refuses to heed your call.  You _should_ have remained north, so why -?

No matter how brief your hesitation, it is noted.

“Return whence you came. You’re yet incomplete, ‘twould avail you to put aside your duties and rest.” Lingering though doubt might be, Elidibus bears pertinent wisdom.

To unspoken command, the ruin responds in your place, the world swirling about you at Elidibus’ behest; cling as you may in attempt to remain, you might well grasp the tides themselves and, try as you might, familiar, cold stone is swallowed by equally familiar shadows before fading to serene, unbroken darkness.


	13. Whispers of Dread; Lies of White

“No!”

As startling as it is uncharacteristic for the soft-spoken scholar, Krile’s abrupt denial is enough that each of your three companions turn to face her in disbelief - you perhaps the most so. What great warrior is Krile, that she would so vehemently turn away such generous offers of aid? “Pardon me?”

“I only mean - I don’t think that’s wise . . .” As she looks upon you, discomfort emanates from her demeanor; it’s not long before she turns away entirely, attentions focusing on Thancred as she wordlessly requests he elaborate in her stead.

How strangely unlike your last meeting -  the fearful respect your reputation oft invokes has never previously extended to her.

Thancred’s gaze wanders to you, seemingly bemused at Krile’s reticence. “We had planned to infiltrate the castrum alone. I’ve a proven knack for subterfuge and I am confident. . .” Further plans and explanations fade to the background, dominated by your musings. Is Thancred’s confidence true, or is it merely overeagerness in attempt to make amends for his absence?

No matter which it proves, their rejection leaves you consciously withholding an envious glower. How you yearn to witness the site of Ultima’s last stand once more - to see what yet remains of the devastated castrum.  Had the Garleans managed to rebuild, or had Weapon’s magicks rendered it irreclaimable?

Even simply envisioning the smoldering field invokes a pleasant echo of the high of battle, of truly unleashing -

Alphinaud tactlessly breaks admiration’s reverie by calling your name. “Might I impose upon you to meet them at the Lominsan docks?”

 _Impose, indeed._ Ever do you play the errand girl. Any other sun of late and you might have bristled in indignation, but a full night’s rest leaves your mood much improved, and you nod, dutifully agreeing to fetch the straggling Scions whilst Alphinaud and Tataru see the Rising Stones prepared to become a home once again.

Meeting adjourned, Tataru and Alphinaud quickly away, off to their business in Mor Dhona; Krile shuffles, eager for pursuit and yet unwilling to meet your gaze. Thancred, however, signals for your attention, beckoning you closer for a private conversation. “I’ve a feeling that with F’lhaminn’s return, the Stones will be home once more. Ere we leave Ishgard, will you apologize to Gibrillont?”

At that, it is your turn for bemusement. “Apologize? For what?”

His forgiving, if conspiratorial smirk, does naught to reassure you. “Come. No one would argue that brute didn’t deserve to be knocked on his behind, but the damaged furnishings. . .”

You tilt your head, hoping to make clear your deepening confusion and, should he fail to elaborate soon, your growing irritation.

“You. . .” Thancred squints appraisingly. “Were you lost that deeply in your cups?  You flattened the debaucher so quickly that no one saw what happened. I thought for certain you were of clear mind. I suppose ‘tis best our flirting went nowhere of consequence, then. . .”

Frustration finally overtakes the warm glow that had been radiating within since your awakening, escaping as an exasperated sigh. “I really have no idea what you could be talking about.”

“Last night.” At last recognizing the severity of your denial, all traces of knowing conspiracy and smirking congratulations at your drunken prowess disappear into concern. “You came to the Forgotten Knight, a patron made an overly forward attempt to lay hands on you, and you taught him a lesson. He went head over heels into a table, which broke it and a few chairs besides.”

“No, I -” Your mind races and your veins turn to wildfire as you desperately search for the fragments of shattered memories that stubbornly elude your grasp.

“What _do_ you remember about last night?”

The memory shimmers just beyond your grasp, distorted as a silt-laden riverbed; but no matter the fog, some images and impressions are borne so deeply that they remain easily recognizable. Darkness. Regret. Hesitation. _Elidibus._ “I….”

 _What is happening to me?_ You slept, dreamt of an Ascian, and awoke to tales of misadventures you’ve no recollection of.

This is serious, more than you once thought possible. The others should know; if anyone could understand this premonition borne of growing dread, it would be Thancred.

Yet Y’shtola had examined you only suns ago - surely she would have found a problem of this nature had one existed - and belittled your concerns in the process, emphasizing to you the value of keeping such flights of fancy to yourself. And if anyone would overreact to such baseless worry, it would be Thancred. Having lost so much, he’ll not see it happen again.

“I. . . may have had one too many mugs of cider with Count Edmont before retiring. I remember falling into bed and after that. . . I’m not certain I even dressed down for sleep.”

How easily you forge your deceptions.

Your heart sinks with immediate regret as Krile finally succeeds in pulling Thancred away, his quizzically furrowed glance serving only to salt the wound. You should have told him. The healing remnant of _that_ wound on your cheek is proof enough your ills are more than fantasy.

Some part of you that falters between reality and delusion _understands_. This time was different, the Emissary’s emergence at the center of change. An alluring siren of truth, the faded shadows of dreams hold answers just beyond your grasp, their key naught but teasing whispers cloaked in white.


	14. Shores of the Aetherial Sea

Adrift on a silent sea of shimmering blue, guided by a force so insurmountable that it overcomes individuality with ease, there’s naught to do but await the looming mothercrystal’s acknowledgement as you swirl closer and closer, falling deeper and deeper into Her shadow. Not having summoned you Herself, there is chance that your presence in the sea is unexpected.

Mortal concepts are meaningless once ascended to the higher plane;  a bell, a sun, a moon - how long She leaves you drifting, you know not, but ‘tis an uneventful journey, with no companions save growing anxiety and anticipation. Nearer and nearer you approach, far closer than you’ve ever been permitted, until you are nigh able to touch Her shimmering majesty. Unable to resist the temptation, you reach out - but your fingers caress only empty sea, Hydaelyn forever outside mortal grasp. Elusive though She remains, Hydaelyn responds to your touch; energy courses your body, the familiar empowering revitalization that flows through your crystals of light wells in your breast and out your fingertips against your will, seeping from your flesh, siphoned from your essence as if fed upon. 

Only once empowered after returning what is rightly Hers can She properly acknowledge you.  “Hear. . .Feel. . .Think. . .”

Hydaelyn. The Goddess so lofty She believes you need to be reminded of your own senses.

Such uncharacteristic bitterness does not become of you, but it bleeds nonetheless as you remain unable to shake away gnawing doubts.

At last the sea stills at your feet, as if your very presence is a disruptive anomaly; it might well be.  An endless cascade parts for She alone, at its base, a conglomeration of glowing aether, stray rays of light bursting from its core, exalting in newfound freedom.  Clean and clear, the light solidifies into a humanoid, at first lacking detail, no different from pristine glass, but quickly gains color, stained like crystalline windows, before at last smoothing into unnaturally flawless flesh bathed in a sourceless glow.

Nary a soul would believe this alien to be spoken, no matter how similar her appearance. Up and up your eyes roam, dread welling in your breast as you meet the gaze of a strikingly familiar woman; cold, distant, and devoid of all softness she once held, Minfilia floats down to your side.

She speaks, each word an echoing, delicate chime more than a true voice. Unwavering and flat, the stranger explains her appearance - her very existence - yet you hear little of it.  So foreign and intrusive are Minfilia’s changes that you’re unable to heed aught else; her hair inexplicably grown and styled, her aether-soaked eyes, lifeless and disparate with her former self, even the immodest dress of a style unlike any you’ve yet witnessed -

“There, adrift and alone, Her voice silent once more, I prayed. . . For those we have lost. For those we can yet save. To Her I would make an offering. . .”

And thus Hydaelyn summoned her most devout servant into the aetherial sea and provided no escape, using her only as kindling to fuel Her continued existence. Now She manifests, naught more than a lifeless doll before you, and speaks through its form, wearing a recognizable face to earn your trust after moons of silence.

A familiar tale, one you’ve previously known only to be borne of darkness.

All that remains of the Minfilia you knew is an empty shell, as lifelike as the animated puppets guarding the Sharlayan structure you traversed to gain entrance to the sea.

“Unto thee we bequeath the most precious of gifts: the truth which lieth at the heart of this world.”

A gift so precious - yet so rarely given. Only now that your life is wholly defined by Her does Hydaelyn deign whisper Her truths. With Minfilia consumed, could it be that She seeks to ingratiate Herself to a new most devout servant, that you might willingly offer yourself should the need arise?

“But the Darkness coveted power, and the balance was broken. Thus was I forced to banish Him unto the distant heavens, to forever remain apart.”

She claims to gift the truth yet leaves out any hint of the conflict’s genesis; are you expected to accept such knowledge unquestioningly?

“In sundering the star did we cry out, and the barriers 'twixt planes chance to falter. Across ten and three were we then divided. Reflections of the Source, each possessed of a shard.”

Everything shattered, broken. Thirteen worlds that should never have been.

Untenable. Even after Rejoining spreads Her half as thin as She was at creation’s start, Hydaelyn remains so weak that She is largely condemned to the same silence as Zodiark.

“For His restoration, for His resurrection, His servants labor without cease. They seek to tear down the barriers which surround the Source.”

The Source, _our_ world, protected by its barriers, while thirteen others are left to fend for themselves. Copies. Afterthoughts. Accidents. Fragments full of life, yet destined only to shatter; She suffers, but knows no solutions to stall a collapse of which She is the cause. _That_ is Her “precious gift:” a truth of cyclic devastation She recounts only to Her chosen Warrior.

“The Ascians cannot be suffered to continue. This. . .this is my final. . .” Minfilia’s form shimmers, lances of light piercing through innumerable cracks forming in her flesh, and doubles over, the puppet’s strings all but severed. “The crystal's power is all but spent. With what remains, I will return you to the shore of the aetherial sea. Blessed child, go forth and seek. . .seek. . .”

And with that, Minfilia shatters, stolen image as untenable as the unintended worlds.

The looming mothercrystal falls silent once more, seemingly shrinking as your soul returns to infinitely distant shores. Summoned toward a form you know intimately as your own, an anchor that keeps you whole in a stream that would easily shred your very soul, there is a disorienting intimate awareness of _separateness_. The woman on the shore massaging her temples is as a shell; _you_ are more. _Something_ lingers outside your awareness, an understanding, lost almost as soon as you’re able to acknowledge it, leaving you solidly bound within flesh once more.

If there’s emptiness in the revelation, you’ve no time to consider it.  There is naught to do now but trek back through the tower to deliver news of Minfilia's status to inevitably disappointed friends.

 

\----

 

“She - she's not coming back, is she?” The unpleasant conversation finally concluded, Alphinaud's pain is borne deeply in his demeanor as he silently pleads for illusions of comfort. You’ve naught to offer; you’ve none even for yourself.  There is one who needs your attentions far more; wordlessly, you push past Alphinaud and through the tunnel that serves as the exit from the cavern and return to the humidity of the Hinterlands.

Night fell while you explored the Sharlayan ruin and aetherial sea and your eyes are yet to adjust; Wood planks grooved with age, deceptively strong owing to the wards woven into them, give way to your shove at the door.

Though Thancred is not visible directly from the entrance, he cannot have gone far. He seeks the silence of solitude, but if there is any time he needs companionship in his vulnerability, ‘tis now.  “Thancred?” Only the occasional croak of a frog returns your query. “I won’t leave you to be alone with this.”

A reluctant rustle follows a long pause and hesitantly Thancred emerges into your periphery vision, requiring you suppress a small smile at his uncharacteristic meekness. At his strained blank stare, your breast churns, immediately cooling the blooming warmth as you approach, the controlled patter of footfall uncomfortably breaking the silence before words can. “Thancred, I’m sorry.”

Drained of his little remaining energy, Thancred’s shoulders drop and his eyes fall to the water, unable to look upon you. “I left her with you. Why did you let her go?” Though pained, Thancred’s low tone lacks true accusation.

“There was no stopping her. You know Minfilia did everything she could for Hydaelyn, even when asked for her very life.” The answer satisfies only so far as silence and Thancred quickly slips back into reticence.

Impulse drives you to step forward and grasp Thancred's hand. He does not return your grip with any strength, but nor does he swat you away. A deliberate squeeze prompts a half-hearted, gentle response in kind. “It isn't fair.” He shifts uncomfortably at the confident ring of your voice, straining not to fall apart before you; ever does Thancred feel the need to show strength, no matter how reasonable his weakness. Yet even recognizing his discomfort, whispers tumble from your lips against your better judgement. “It isn't fair, she devoted her life and so life was demanded of her in turn.  Minfilia deserved better.”

The words resonate with his pain and Thancred closes his eyes, gaze downturned as if seeking escape from unspoken promises -  but not your company. Aye, he wants - nay, _needs_ \- you at his side; you recall mention of flirting some brief time ago and before you comprehend your actions, your hand roams up to his cheek, turning his face to so that he might indulge your fervent whispers. “Thancred, what if we could put her back together?” The quizzical knot forming in his brow promises success and urges you to continue. “Mayhap we could pull her from the lifestream as we did Y’shtola?” So close now, the heat from his body warms you as you stroke sun-worn skin and the stubble covering his jaw; your eyes occasionally dart to his lips suggestively, and his follow suit nigh on instinct. “There must be a way. . .we could put her back together. . .we could put _everything_ back together, everything She's ever broken. . .”

Abruptly, pain shoots through your arm up to your shoulder; lighting-quick, Thancred  forcibly removes your hand, twisting it at the wrist, intensely searching your eyes as if for. . . something. Anger rises like bile, but you swallow it down as you hold his gaze, hoping welling disgust at his rejection is not as evident on your features as it is on your tongue. Tension borne so deeply that the echoing croak of frogsongs and irritating hum of vilekin swell as if to fill the uncomfortable lapse; harsh breaths mingle with Thancred’s for what seems to be a bell until finally he relents, but his irritable growl reveals dissatisfaction with his search. “What are you saying? _Remove_ her? You speak the impossible.”

“And when have we been discouraged by impossibilities?” Hushed, soothing, and gentle despite your compromised position and the pain you permit him to hold over you, your characteristic unfaltering confidence gives Thancred pause. “Everything would be as it once was.”

As abruptly as he seized it, Thancred releases your hand with a deep breath, stepping away so that he might seek answers within the bog.

‘Tis not long before he reaches his conclusion, unspoken condemnation of your proposed plan barely audible: “Ishgard changed you.” You await elaboration, but none comes. “Mayhap Matoya was right in asking us to refocus our purpose. We must each determine what yet drives us.”

“Thancred, we need not simply accept -”

“You should do the same.” With finality, Thancred turns from you and closes his eyes; there’s no more to discuss.  Unaccustomed to such blatant dismissal, you stiffen and clench your jaw. Without even a second glance, you stride off into the night toward Idyllshire, rejection’s sting proving a far deeper wound than any beast’s assault.

Your purpose?

_Hmph._

Your purpose has been to serve Hydaelyn nigh since the moment you began your Eorzean adventuring career, serving a Goddess that knows naught about Her children. She dared dangle a puppet in the form of a former friend before you as if ‘twould invoke a feeling other than revulsion and lamented in Her one-sided tale a situation as impossible to maintain as drinking from a shattered cup held together only by elderly, trembling fingers.

Naught but a cog in an endless cycle. A warrior that mends the seams of the stars themselves.

Or so it should be.

Yet here you remain, instead snuffing Ishgard’s trivial flames while a bonfire grows in the distance.

With each life lost to war, slowly, ever so slowly, does the ephemeral balance shift; how long until Her barriers rend, redress an impossibility?

Such is the futility of your _purpose._

There must be another way.


	15. Waking Dreams

All is black.

In testament to the late bell, were anyone else astir, candlelight from the main hall would dance through the crack under the door and cast faint, flickery outlines about this small room, but at this hour, all is black.

Heavy silence is broken only by your slow, steady breaths, consciously tamed into something mimicking sleep in an effort to reach your goal. Yet no matter how wholly you focus on rest, racing thoughts twist your innards and keep sleep elusive; the day’s dire revelations have left lasting wounds.

The Scions were rightly devastated by Minfilia’s plight: Alphinaud’s loss of all his cherished composure, Krile’s stunned silence, and Thancred’s sullen guilt; of all your comrades, Y'shtola's distress guides the deepest contemplation. Her grief warped into anger and determination - determination to end the conflict, that Minfilia’s sacrifice need not be in vain, and to deliver a world purged of darkness to Hydaelyn.

Your reaction had been one of anger, too - anger so great it surprised even you; it permeated so deeply that, even now, your stomach turns in revulsion.

_Disgusting._

And you’re little different from the master you serve. The gifts and protection you have been given to keep Hydaelyn’s peace - She would use them as tools to shatter everything and everyone if She deemed it necessary. She already has.

Irrational, seething rage again stirs in your breast, but is quickly cooled, as if doused in a chill spring on a hot summer day.  Erratic breaths tamed, tension you were unaware of, despite many attempts to consciously relax, at last releases.  The sudden arrival of serene darkness is as welcome as it confusing, so thorough it might well have been a spell.

Such nostalgic stillness.  You pause, straining to listen.

You lie still, _thinking_ at the black, _feeling_ at the black, immersing yourself as though it might absurdly respond to your bewildered state. Against all expectation and logic it _does_ ; gentle, foreign amusement washes over you and you sit up from your bed, strangely at peace with the intrusive presence. A faded memory rises to the surface; just recently you dreamt of meeting _him_ and here he is again, watching you - nay, studying you?

Neither fate nor chance adequately explains his presence.

Nor does it explain how easily you recognize him.

Elidibus holds his silence, ascertaining he’s not perceived as a threat, even when his appearance is an inevitable prelude to antagonism.  His is a contradictory presence; Emissary is more than a title - it’s his very existence, antithetical to yours as a warrior. ‘Tis a soothing conundrum guiltily enjoyable in its familiarity.

You cannot but respect his boldness.  When he last approached the Scions he was greeted with hostility; ‘tis misguided for him to believe you’d easily accept his presence on a second visit.  And you know well that if you were to meet Elidibus on equal terms, expecting answers is naught but a fool, idealistic notion. Instead he appears while you're troubled and frail, as if to offer his hand in guidance.

Mysterious though his purpose might be, the calming weight of continued darkness weaves confidence over hesitance and vulnerability and at last you indulge in the briefest of hope.  At the very least, you must know whether his seeming generosity is simply imagination run rampant. “Why are you here?”

What can he possibly want from the Warrior of Light that requires discussion with words in place of blades?

The shade is silent for a time lengthy enough to make you question if he was ever present at all, but finally, cautiously, his deep voice murmurs from mere fulms away: “You’ve forgotten.”

You draw breath sharply; with simple, clear accusation, Elidibus cuts to the heart of your dread. Fears previously shoved aside for duty’s sake invade like the scent of yesterday’s rotting meat, pervasive, demanding you reap his knowledge. Bearing a tone of stoic command that you hope conceals growing weakness, you summon the frail remains of fortitude in expectation of the worst. “What have you done to me?”

That he comes _now_ is much more than coincidence - yet you don’t wish him to leave, not when answers are within your grasp.

“Your condition is of your own making.”

‘Tis easy to ignore the dismissive amusement at your defensiveness when his admission births more relief than anxiety. “You mean I’m not. . .” You’re hesitant to even complete the thought at all.  Changes in behavior, lapses in memory, thoughts that are not your own - Thancred’s unspoken suspicions are legitimate.  Cool relief floods your veins for naught more than an instant; Elidibus' vague, worrisome confirmation that there _is_ a condition plaguing you smothers any rising comfort. Though he denies involvement, the satisfaction now permeating the room is unmistakable and directly in contradiction to his earlier serenity.

Elidibus keeps his peace, awaiting your pleasure.

Doubt demands inhibition; if Elidibus is familiar with your. . .condition. . .what reason does he have to aid his foe?  “What do you know?” Even in the darkness ‘tis clear the familiar smile does not leave his features; you only hope his continued favorable mood is implication of his willingness to share any possible solutions to whatever troublesome phenomenon invades your dreams. “I dreamt of you and -”

Though the events after the dream were lost to you - the violent wanderings recounted by Thancred to your horror  - an intrusive, niggling _question_ rises that demands assumptions be challenged.

Darkness, much like tonight’s; slow, certain footfalls meeting solid stone; white cloth magnifying even the most out-of-place gleam; aetheric touch, caring as a chirurgeon’s. Sharp, lingering details slowly extricate themselves from deep memory which, had it been a dream, should have been irretrievable by now.  There can be but one truth. “‘Twas not a dream.”

“Remarkable.” Elidibus prove far more tolerant of your impudence than you’d expect of such a meeting, as if he holds personal stake in matters. His continued interest only enhances your confusion. “The fractures mend even as we speak.”

“Fractures. . .”

As if made of pure crystal, Minfilia’s form shatters into a thousand thousand glittering shards in your mind’s eye. ‘ _We could put everything back together.’_  Where had the certainty of the proposal you pressed so fervently onto Thancred come from?

Elidibus interrupts morbid reverie. “Your concern is of lapses - of strange thoughts and desires, and of truths just beyond your reach.”

It is not a question, but you nod all the same.

But _\- How can he know?_  How can someone so alien know the troubles you cannot put to words?

“These are but forgotten shards of your past. With each recollection, you become whole once more.”

Whispered temptations, promises of fulfillment and an end to whatever _this_ is - Elidibus promises it all.

“You lie. I know my past.” A confident declaration made more out of need to deny Elidibus his victory than of truth; even as you speak the words, you know them to be false. Simultaneously, ‘tis an impossibility for there to be validity in his tale; your memories failed only recently, the rest of your past remains clear.

“Do you?” Such familiar condescension; Elidibus provokes an irritation that should not exist.  “Where did we first speak?”

Regardless, you choose to play his game.  It has been so long since then - so very long.

 _Vesper Bay_ , flits at the tip of your tongue, but something stops you; Elidibus has always been there, you may well have always known him.

Your hesitation is noted. “And where did we last speak?”

It was a familiar place, well known to both of you - a place you can put no name to, because you have never been there. An impossibly frustrating contradiction.

Elidibus continues his relentless barrage despite heavy silence; his is a ferocity, a passion, a _need_ to demonstrate the truth of his words.

You’ve not seen him quite like this.

“What was your last mission?”

 _Ishgard. Thordan._ That much is clear enough… and still, like droplets of rain on a still lake, the memory ripples in response to your focus, refusing to return a single thought you might grasp.

Never before have words rendered you so powerless.

You need not concede his victory; though Elidibus does not show it, his satisfaction is clear - a rare treat he seldom gets to flaunt over you. “You shall remember. And when you do, seek me out. I will hold nothing back.”

A moment later, the black is empty, leaving you alone in dread-filled stillness.

Seek _him_ out? Is he mad? You should tell the Scions of the incursion immediately.

No matter what logic dictates, you remain firmly in place.

After your last interaction with Thancred, any mention of an Ascian visit, even against your will, might well convince him your alliances have shifted.  At the very least, you should allow some few days for grief to give way to bonding before revealing such an encounter.

Even beyond that. . .

Elidibus promises answers, but the accursed man remains so _Ascian_ in his intent.  The more you recall, the more black hollowness swells in your stomach; that Elidibus has knowledge of your plight only enforces the danger. But would you willingly suppress the strange dreams, knowing their cause? Seal off a piece of yourself so that you might find comfort?

All the more reason to tell your friends; you might find a solution together.

But Y’shtola’s dismissal yet burns.

Nay, there’s little benefit to be had speaking with the Scions.  This is an issue you must come to terms with on your own.

 _Or perhaps not so alone_ , the depths of your mind whispers its forbidden temptation.

Curse Elidibus and his smug satisfaction. Though he knows the answers, he instead proposes more questions. You’ll not submit so easily to his demands, but nor can you seek help elsewhere for a time.

What else can can be done, but wait?


	16. Shades of Blue

Voices are not what you expected when you arrived at the heavy chestnut door marking Aymeric’s office in the Congregation of Our Knights Most Heavenly, but voices are what greet you; the Temple Knight who summoned you had mentioned no such meeting and you’ve no intention of intruding.

Simply listening shall suffice.

Alphinaud’s familiar formalities meet your ear first.  “. . .give me for having been unable to locate her.”

“There’s naught to forgive. The Warrior of Light does not want for demands on her time, I imagine.” They speak of you? “She is well, I trust?”

Alphinaud hesitates and you press your ear to the door. “She seems. . . disquieted of late. I know not its cause, be it illness or exhaustion or some personal matter, and ‘tis not my place to intrude; I fear recent events have taken a much greater toll than they would have were she well.” Through narrowed eyes, the carved patterns beneath your fingers blur; it should be _your_ decision alone to reveal frailties of body or mind.

“I pray she recovers quickly. We may have need of her soon. Which brings me to my point. . .” Irritation sinks deeper into you; Aymeric speaks of you as a chocobo handler might a favorite thoroughbred.

Unacceptable.  You must put an end to their gossip before Alphinaud agrees to some proposal on your behalf; you'll not have your time planned for you - not when you’ve barely enough for yourself. A sharp shove sees the door swing open, and Alphinaud starts, jumping from his place and spinning around to face the unexpected guest. Aymeric stands equally hastily, relief writ plain on his features at your feigned curiosity. “Good day Ser Aymeric. . .and Alphinaud, what a surprise to see you here. I was told I was being looked for, but you weren't mentioned.”

“Ah, er - yes. I received word yesterday, while. . .” He clears his throat uncomfortably, avoiding the sensitive topic of Minfilia. “You left before I could deliver the message.”

“Incidentally, Tataru was looking for you. Something about the ledgers.” A lie, but only partly. Tataru's always open for financial discussions with those willing - or not - to listen.

“Indeed. Well! As my presence here is no longer required. . .pardon me, Ser Aymeric.” The two exchange diplomats’ polite bows before Alphinaud makes his exit; a final glare at the door closing in his wake satisfies your petty grudge and you mask your annoyance one more.

Aymeric stands amid sparse furnishings and absurdly high ceilings that dwarf him, a man who would boast an average Elezen’s height in any other setting, and make him briefly seem a child playing at leadership. Despite his relative warmth compared to others of his nation, his is a stiff and proper demeanor, and already you feel him preparing to launch into a speech.

How decidedly _dull._

After a brief, polite amount of chatter, Aymeric begins the languorous wind to his reason for requesting your presence. “When the True Brothers of the Faith seized control of the Vault, I feared the worst. Yet in adversity were we blessed with the promise of peace between man and dragon, through Vidofnir's timely rescue of an innocent child.”

“Surely you don’t believe the people’s vengeance quelled by one fortuitously-timed act?”

Your interruption stuns Aymeric into brief silence, as if he had expected you to simply listen and agree with his prepared words. Perhaps, another time, you may have done just that. Slow paces draw you toward his desk, rather than waiting at an appropriately _stiff_ and _proper_ distance during his consideration.

“There are opponents, yes, but we have reached out to them and limited their influence. The time is now! We cannot let this opportunity pass us by, which is why I set about making formal arrangements for a peace conference between our people and Vidofnir’s.” His smile is one of a man satisfied to have gotten back to his plan.

Withholding a smirk of your own, you raise a leg to perch on the edge of his desk, appearing too deeply in thought to give the informality any consideration. “You’ve never been at war with Hraesvelgr’s brood. They seek only to peacefully live their lives in their own territory, away from your hostilities with Nidhogg.”

Aymeric deflates before you, his confidence faltering even as you idly trace a decorative lantern on the corner of his desk. “It will set a precedent for our opponents, both within and without, to see that peace with our enemy can _work._ Do you not believe so?”

Small candles yearn to flicker within the lantern, but wrought iron shields them from any air that would feed their chaotic dance and forces them into a tamed smolder. Even the cold stone of this place is uncomfortably stifling compared to _there_ \- wherever _there_ had been. “Indeed. Though they were not your enemy, they bear the same shape, and Ishgard’s prejudices _may_ begin to subside.”

Standing once more, your paces slowly bring you behind the desk, feigning temporary interest in the pair of crossed halberds on the wall that dominate the room’s decor. Aymeric hesitates; whether his hesitation is borne more of the uncertainty you’ve injected into his plans or your inappropriate informality, you can only wonder. “You will be attending, of course?”

His softened plea pulls from you an inscrutable smile. “Of course.” You pass your hand over one of the few open candles behind his desk, and the flame draws itself up toward you, flickering over your features and making the halberds’ shadows jump.

The stoic Lord Commander allows himself a long exhale. “Good. I feared you would refuse and our plans would be disrupted by Nidhogg. I felt such dread as I’ve not felt in years.”

How. . .honest. It takes some effort to maintain your smile as you turn toward him, still feeling the heat of the flames on your fingertips. “‘Tis very admirable, you know. That you would give your all for what you believe is best for Ishgard.” He turns, about to stammer out a half-sincere dismissal of your praise, but is stopped by the back of a finger trailing down his cheek. “You’re like your father in that regard.”

Despite a noticeable bristling at Thordan’s name, Aymeric does not move from your invasive position behind his desk together. “That is one man with whom I would rather not be compared. . .”

“Is it so terrible? The ambitious plans, the people’s love - say what you will about him, but he was willing to go farther than any of his predecessors to bring an end to this war.” Consumed by your thoughts - or so it appears - you take even his chair for your own; it has wanted for use since you entered the room. “Though your choice of ending is far more commendable, I suppose.”

“His reign was a lie that held his people captive to circumstances of birth. They deserve peace and freedom; I will see both in place ere the end! I am _not_ like him -” Aymeric stumbles forward, a hand clutching an arm of his now-occupied chair, pain contorting his expression into a grimace; you reach up to steady him, concern masking a dark amusement you dare not show. He sought to use the Warrior of Light as if you were some prized steed, yet how easy it was to render him vulnerable to you. . .

“'Tis nothing, 'tis nothing.” He sighs heavily as he rights himself with careful movements. “Lucia cautioned me against giving vent to my passions, lest my wounds reopen.”

“Please, sit.” You stand and guide him to his chair, but remain close at hand, ensuring his health with insistent, fussy examinations; even as you check his forehead for fever, he avoids your gaze in hopes of discouraging your touch. “You bear so much love for your people. He did, too.”

Pregnant silence rests between you, the nagging urge driven by your determination to speak of Thordan finally taking root within Aymeric. “He was so certain he would bring about change and free our nation from the sins of antiquity. Yet it matters not what form that change takes; if its source is a lie, it cannot found a stable Ishgardian future.”

Aymeric prattles on, but you hardly hear him, his platitudes striking one of Elidibus’ ‘forgotten shards.’

_The self proclaimed god-king stood before you. Newborn and drunk with power, his first act was a mocking demonstration of the folly of opposing his power by consuming the very beings that you need “mortal contrivances” to destroy._

_Her_ anguished shrieks of rage at the revelation of Thordan’s betrayal were quickly and eternally silenced by his abhorrent light.

“Are you alright, my friend?” Aymeric's voice summons you back to the present - and with it comes a _seething_ roiling within that refuses to be contained let alone masked, and his dumbfounded expression is soon replaced by one of irritation. “You were the last person I expected to sing his praises, but no amount of small redeeming qualities erases his betrayals. This is _not_ something I shall be convinced of.”

Hands shaking, nails digging into your palms almost until flesh tears, it takes every effort to reign in an urge to strike Ishgard’s acting leader for the simple crime of familial resemblance to the _traitor_. “On that we agree.”

Turning quickly and striding away toward the door, you ignore the utterly baffled stare boring into your back, that you might preserve the safety of the one wearing it if you are overtaken by this strange, sourceless anger.

_Traitor._


	17. Sparking the Blaze

She darts like flame rising through dry brush, her whispers an irresistible incense that confirms preconceived bias.

“He’d do the same to us as he did to that poor girl if he could get away with it. We’re not _people_ to the bluebloods.”

A conference of peace turned to destruction; to the fearful, such chaos is a calming allure - a promise of justice and peace of mind.

“There are more of _us_ than there are of _them_.”

They know the words but not the speaker; theirs is a rallying cry against the leadership that betrays them, a growing wave of unspoken rage and unfulfilled promise.

“If we run now, they win. We _must_ fight!”

At conflict’s onset, the broken vessel renews his frenetic search for his lost savior in vain hope that she might stand with him against the rising tide.

Savior and instigator, vessel seeking possessor; multifaceted ironies bring Elidibus fleeting amusement.

Unfavorably, Lahabrea’s arrogance manifests easily in her whispers.  Unstable and indistinct, she habitually displays little care for the consequences of being seen; rarely a worry to their kind, such considerations are irrelevant to the dominant memories newly etched upon her soul.

That will not do.

The former vessel’s search, once futile, narrows in on its target, threatening to reveal unfortunate truths. Though he might yet overlook her, Elidibus is not wont to leave their fates to chance.

Such troublesome necessities; he had not intended to make his presence known.

A simple rend, stepping near enough that the mortal's attention is drawn to familiar ritualistic garments, is Elidibus’ sole gift to the renewed Lahabrea.

Understanding immediately fills the seeker’s features; justice, righteousness, duty all flit in cyclic conflict through him.  It takes naught but a moment before his path becomes clear; idealistic trust that his beloved companion will adequately stymie the swelling tides guides his hand.

Elidibus turns from him, slowly walking against the wave; he needs but earn her a few moments, so that she might regain her composure.

They cannot continue this displeasing existence; where should be balance instead exists a deepening abhorrent rend. More joined than Elidibus dared consider after minimal observation, they wax and wane, too individually willful to accept their union.

At last having drawn the Scion to a destination far from the warrior, Elidibus makes for her side, darkness's languid spill a final taunt to his pursuer.

There is yet time to set their flawed existence to rights, to mend them as he does Hydaelyn’s.

In this state, the warrior’s essence is a familiar beacon; locating her poses none of the difficulties to Elidibus that it does her mortal companions. He steps from the rift to her side; the siren’s chaotic whispers to the masses coursing around her fall silent as she greets the unwelcome intruder.

She stills, memories of Elidibus contradictory and fundamentally incompatible. With widened eyes, the Warrior reawakens, Lahabrea returning once again to dormancy.

A displeasing resolution that further exacerbates her instability, but Elidibus can expect no more from such a hasty solution.

“No. . .” Even overwhelmed by confusion does she understand the dire ramifications of her broken surroundings.

“You’d best return to your companions.”  There are no answers that he might share - not under these circumstances.  They were not intended to meet again so soon.

Though displeased at his evasion, logic quickly gains the upper hand in her growing internal conflict.

A final cursory glance at Elidibus before her departure speaks volumes of her deterioration into despair.

Nay, that will not do at all.


	18. Precipice

He’s not to sleep.

A barrage of pathetic whimpers and dazed queries assault you from the nearby stretcher; Ishgard’s chirurgeons busy themselves with triage of the riot’s various injuries while Emmanellain remains in your temporary care.

Your care. . .and Thancred’s, though he appears to have even less patience for the boy’s self-piteous sniveling than you do.

“I don’t understand… what happened? How did it all go wrong?”

Thancred tuts disapprovingly at Emmanellain’s pouting and, rather than heeding him, continues to pace, tense as a caged coeurl, irritation barely restrained within balled fists. He's barely acknowledged you since the riot’s pacification and you cannot shake the festering dread in your breast that his negativity might be directed towards you. The silence lingers heavily and at last you chance a question in hopes of drawing Thancred from his anxious contemplation.  “The crowd did this to him?”

Unfortunately confirming your fears, Thancred stills, incredulous, and meets your gaze with a narrowed eye. “Obviously. You saw them, did you not? They were out for blood.”

So discomforting is his glare that you turn away, busying yourself with checking the lordling’s bandage; changed just a moment ago, the red stain grows more slowly this time than last. “It looked like he was hit by a piece of broken masonry.”

“I wouldn’t know. I left him so that I might find you.” Slow and deliberate, Thancred displays little caution, words carrying an edge sharper than either of his blades.  Should you turn around, his glare will doubtless be laden with blame.

His questions, when they come, will be more than fair but impossible to answer, and you would avoid -

“Where were you?”

Remaining over Emmanellain despite having naught left to attend to, you hesitate.  You must needs choose your words with care, lest whispers of Scion conflict reach more threatening ears.  “As I said. . .that serving girl put something in my drink.”

“I found the cup. There’d been enough sleeping potion in it that I could still smell the saffron. _You_ should’ve been out cold close by.”

“Could it have been a sleepwalking draught of some kind?” Without knowing whether such a thing exists, you can but offer it up as a possibility to reign in Thancred’s fantasies.

Your explanation is rewarded with naught but continued ominous silence that lingers so long that you finally risk turning to Thancred, fearing some other trouble is afoot. Yet his posture remains unchanged; Thancred frustratingly awaits an answer that will satisfy him - one you’re incapable of providing.  “I told you, I woke midst the chaos.”

His eyes finally close, head tilting down slightly; when they reopen a moment later, the anticipated suspicion at last makes itself known. “Is this happening often?”

 _Yes._ But he cannot know - not yet. Panic twists into feigned exasperation; his barrage of questions would be unreasonable and uncaring under any other circumstance. “Thancred, I was _poisoned!_ What do you _want_ from me?”

“You could be more careful, for one! I needed your help!” He closes the distance between you, rage threatening to boil over.

All the while Emmanellain whimpers, caught between quarreling members of an order intended to represent peace, likely sorry the attention has shifted from him.

“What difference could I have made? That was a riot, Thancred. All the temple knights at hand couldn’t contain it.” Though intended to soothe, Thancred’s jaw instead clenches.

“There was an Ascian lurking. The one in white. You should have been there to help me find him.” His voice carries a quiet, hateful danger that chills your veins. _He did not see - please -_ “And you aren’t surprised.”

“I -”  Your stomach drops, throat tightening and tongue refusing to heed you; even if only for an instant, Thancred surely notices the budding hesitation in your half-truths. “I wasn’t certain I saw him. . .it was soon after I awakened and he was far away, blocked by the mass of bodies. You confirm something I’d hoped I imagined.”

“‘ _Something you’d hoped you imagined_?’ Not long ago you’d have brought such concerns to light unprompted.”

“What are you accusing me of? Taking a bell to organize my thoughts after finding myself drugged in what should have been a safe place? Gods forbid the Warrior of Light ever displays such mundane a feeling as fear.”

You choose to remain vague about _what_ you fear.

At the truthful admission of vulnerability, Thancred momentarily falls to silence, but he’ll not be denied so easily. “'Feelings’ aren't at issue here, and you know it. You've changed, and not for the better. I asked you to share your burdens, but you conceal them instead. What little you do show is. . . disturbing.”

Rage flares, scorching away rationality - _the truth_ , his glare demands, relentless and unwavering; _trust_ , your mind shrieks in return, _is it truly so much to ask_?  Thancred insists you share your troubles in the same breath as he disparages them.

“What was that yesterday? About Minfilia. You sounded - nay, you _were_ different.” It seems the depths of your plight have finally dawned upon him; in contrast to his earlier behavior, this lacks accusation, more earnest question than demand. But the realization comes too late; you’ve had more than enough of his needling. 

Of course you're different. Trials and losses ever compounding - if you’d a gil for each time you've heard the words “relax” or “well-earned rest” of late -

“‘Twas equal parts grief and determination. I thought you might understand, given your devotion to her. . and your reason for it.” His shock proves remarkably satisfying; ‘tis not a story he tells often or willingly, and common decency dictates you hold your tongue and allow him his private pain, but he’ll regret -

 _No._ You firmly put growing irrationality to rest; no matter your disgust, it will not do to lose yourself to this foreign rage. More subtle words, mired in implication and memory, however. . . “A familiar scene, this.”

An untold tale - an eternal regret -  and with it, further reminder of failure. Persistent and overbearing, imagined inadequacies gnaw at Thancred, even after such wounds once allowed --

Allowed you -

So easily -

An anguished cry rips you from memory’s precipice; greeted by the sight of Thancred’s fist slamming into a nearby wall, Emmanellain, having silenced himself for the duration of your discussion, yelps at the frightening outburst.

You do not flinch.

The memory fades as would a dream, irrecoverable without the proper focus.  Gods _damn_ it all, these - these. . .

Thancred’s attention turns to the bloody knuckles of his - despite his uncommon strength - too-fragile body.

They're just so -

Emmanellain moans yet another “what was I supposed to do?” in lamentation of his bruised ego more than his damaged skull.

\- fragile; emotional; _pathetic_.

Yet were you not just on the verge of an outburst of your own? _Understandable,_ whispers self-delusion; nay, that you _feel_ is unimportant, emotion has never rendered you inert.  Duty instead dictates that you rise above such frailties; those most vulnerable must needs be enthralled by your example and see you as a paragon they should aspire to become.

A lengthy time passes in silence; when the chirurgeons return to take Emmanellain away, Thancred takes his leave wordlessly.

What trust remains between you is uncertain - as is your feeling that this is for the best.


	19. Respite Under a Broken Bough

Once more do you return to the solar after victory over a false God; though the participants are drastically altered, the scene remains comforting in its familiarity.

Unukalhai does not presume to sit in Minfilia’s place - you know not if ‘twill ever be occupied again - and instead dutifully leans against the familiar desk’s front side, placidly awaiting your return as if in prolonged meditation. Your approaching footfall the anticipated messenger, his serenity is broken and he stands in greeting, white mask facing you in full; even concealed as he is, Unukalhai somehow reveals a warm, eager demeanor more common from an expectant client than a boy who willfully shrouds himself in secrecy.

‘Tis a relief to see that in many ways he is yet a child.

“So, Warrior of Light, how did it feel to strike down so great a foe? You must tell me more of the experience once our meeting with your colleagues is concluded. . .”

A genuine smile serves as anticipatory promise; with the constant despairing weight of secrets pressing upon your shoulders, ‘tis nigh impossible to put to words how _right_ challenging the Fiend felt. The clarity of battle serves as a clear reminder of what you’ve lost, offering a brief lighthearted respite free of the now-constant plague of sullenness and irritation. ‘Twas a simple, familiar matter: there was a threat, and now the threat is diminished.

And _what_ a threat indeed; had Thordan succeeded in awakening not just the Fiend, but his two bound contemporaries as well, absorbing them as he did Igeyorhm. . . he may truly have become the god-king he so desperately desired to be. A flawless plan, save for your intervention. You’d been so distracted by Ishgard’s war against Nidhogg’s brood that had Bismarck not chanced into their path, Thordan’s Ascian puppetmasters would likely have succeeded.

The warmth of satisfaction must needs be indulged in at a later time; Urianger, Y’shtola, and Krile enter together, ready to discuss the ramifications of the Fiend’s defeat.  So then it comes as no surprise when Urianger begins the meeting proper with cautions of the remaining Triad members’ strength, emphasizing the need for careful preparation.

“Assuming the Garleans afford us the luxury of time. Even now, they grasp for the means to dominate primals, blind to the technology's potential for calamity.” The last phrase carries an undertone you find difficult to place; Unukalhai hides his emotions well, but that he has some personal stake in the matter is clear enough. “My master taught me that the entity known as Sephirot was this world's first sacred tree, elevated to godhood by the belief of its worshipers. There is no power more fearsome than that born of unconditional faith and unbending ideal.”

_Fire consumes a distant shore, arms raised, exulting -_

“'Tis plain your master found in you a willing student. Tell me, was it he who taught you of Allagan technology's ‘potential for calamity,’ or are those your own words?”

“Y’shtola.” You scold in warning, though in truth the thought had occurred to you as well. But the boy has demonstrated his willingness to aid you in dispatching ancient eikons of surpassing power and Y’shtola surely understands, as you do, the necessity of demonstrating open-mindedness whilst pursuing the Scions’ primary goal.

That, and you cannot help but sympathize with the thinly-veiled accusations being leveled at Unukalhai after recent similar encounters with your comrades.

Clearing his throat, Unukalhai continues, politely ignoring the disruption. “‘Twas but a figure of speech, naught more.”  Any doubts remain unassuaged and further unwanted questions are deflected with his usual aloof calm. “As long as our purposes align, what matter my affiliation?”

“It matters a great deal. I do not ask out of idle curiosity - if we are to fight as comrades, we must needs be able to trust each other.” Respectably, Krile expresses her concern rationally, rather than posing leading questions; ‘tis reasonably concerning that a new ally of unknown allegiance might shift goals or sides amidst a dire situation.

Perhaps that’s why Urianger accompanies Unukalhai when possible; even as his advocate, Urianger’s strongest endorsement of the boy was no better than “not our enemy for the time being.”

“Anyway, we’d best be off. Do send word if there are any further developments!” With a pleasant wave, Krile files from the room, returning to whatever various duties she busies herself with, Y’shtola in her wake.  She does little to lessen the weight of her antagonism and you refuse to meet her gaze, instead turning your attentions to the curiously lingering Urianger, who follows his peers in contemplative silence naught but a moment later, at last leaving you alone in the warm, familiar room with cold, alien Unukalhai.

An interruption seems the only way to regain Unukalhai’s attention, lost in thought as he seems. Surely he did not forget your promise so quickly.  “Is something troubling you?”

“. . .Nay.” Unukalhai shakes his head. “Only that I did not expect Mistress Krile’s friendliness to follow so easily on the heels of her mistrust.”

“Perhaps she simply hopes you’ll return it.” The solemn boy mulls once more, heeding your advice with a warming thoughtfulness. “You asked to hear more of the battle?”

“Oh, yes.” He reaches over, searching for something; tucked away under the book in which he documents the Triad’s activities, he pulls out a writing pad and draws the ink and quill near enough to easily access with a faint _clink_.  “I was able to watch from above with Mistress Krile, but I would hear your perspective as well.”

“I’m not going to read about this in the _Mythril Eye,_ am I?” Clearly the boy is no reporter, but the tease rewards you with a satisfying fluster all the same.

“The. . .? Ah. No, of course not. That is - Urianger asked -” His awkward attempts at explanation stop at the sound faint chuckles; only belatedly does he understand your jest, though he seems to appreciate it. “Forgive me. You exceed even your own legend; ‘tis difficult to watch a hero demonstrate her full strength and then do anything but take her seriously.”

His surprisingly earnest compliments are heartening. Your fellow Scions give thanks, but such acts are so expected, mayhap even mundane, that they’ve grown accustomed to your abilities. Unfamiliar outpourings like this, or like Krile’s in Azys Lla, that are more than petty flattery and formalities serve as a rare reminder of your true position and strength. “Thank you.”

“Nay, ‘tis all this star who should thank you.”

Heat rises in your face at the continued praise as Unukalhai busies himself with finding a new page in his small book; more are filled than you might have expected, though the glimpses you catch of his shorthand are nigh unreadable, almost as if he does not favor recording in Eorzean. “It seems you enjoy writing.”

He stops searching the pages as he considers your question. “Enjoy. . . I hadn't considered. It is a duty, but. . .I suppose I do.”

“So your duty is to write the next volume of Triad history for your master?” Ignoring his stammered mention of Urianger from a moment ago, you dare broach the forbidden topic instead.

“Indeed. Shall we get on with the battle? I wouldn’t want to keep you.” Though expected, there is no subtlety in the subject change, as it comes just as he finds a blank sheet on which to begin anew.

Quill to page, he spends the next bell in easy conversation regarding the Triad and your earlier struggles, captivated by your every tale, asking necessary questions and diligently recording answers.

Absorbed in his recordings, only once Unukalhai catches sight of the room’s shortened candles does he at last set his quill down. “I should not keep you any longer.  Though I do have one more question, one of more personal nature, if you might permit me.”

Silence serves as tacit agreement and he clears his throat awkwardly.

“Does such a battle ever leave you feeling. . . I believe you call it aether sickness? Or any other strange symptoms?”

Your smile drops; his mask betrays no hint as to whether his intentions entirely innocent and you take pains to evade potential subtext. “No. Should they?”

“Even much later? Any troubles at all.” He absently folds his notebook closed; so this is a personal curiosity, not a matter of record.

Just when you’d been willing to admit you felt comfortable around him, he pierces your armor. “The Echo safeguards us from such things, does it not? What effects would slip through?”

_Lapses? Strange thoughts and desires? Truths just beyond your reach?_

Unukalhai considers for a moment. “My apologies; you are right, of course. Forget I asked. Please do not let me keep you from your duties in the north. I believe Urianger mentioned some manner of war games?”

“Concluded.” You smirk, recalling Thancred’s bitter sardonicism; Ishgard’s reliance on you for battle was well noted.  “Handily.” Though the aches on his heart are yet raw, Thancred’s wounds seem to heal through combat nigh as well as yours.

“It must have been good to see your compatriots from the rest of Eorzea. You’ve been in Ishgard for a long while now.”

Had it been? The melee had presented little challenge and you’d been clapped and cheered at as a spectacle; Unukalhai’s genuine appreciation is a relief after such a circus.

That you cannot muster even polite enthusiasm after prolonged consideration is noted. “I see. They know not how lucky they are to have you.”

Such earnestness once more catches you off guard; his detachment and masked countenance makes it difficult to anticipate such impassioned outpourings. “Thank you. I’ll have to do my best to live up to your expectations. Good day, Unukalhai.”

He bids farewell with a polite bow and you exit the solar and the Stones, intent on returning to Ishgard.

Such a curious boy - even after prolonged discussion, you know no more about him than you did when you received his initial missive. How desperately he feigns aloofness toward every subject but you; how unusual his knowledge for one so young.

His trappings and mask shroud him in mystery and hide his insecurities and fears; his evasiveness about his master and his piercing questions make trust difficult. Yet his appreciativeness of your efforts and willingness to listen make him unique among your companions of late.

For now, he has earned some measure of trust.


	20. Metamorphosis

Perpetual Coerthan winter stings your cheeks, winds barely dampened by the battlements of Falcon’s Nest.

Paces slow and lackadaisical, taking every care not to raise tensions by looking like the guard you are, you wander idly through the growing crowd. There will not be a repeat of the last peace conference; every available Temple Knight, Brume watch, and Scion has been called to keep order.  It happens from time to time that your eyes scan over a familiar face, but all are of similar focus; a brief exchange of tense nods is your only interaction before returning to your respective duties, so ‘tis unexpected when Krile instead calls your name, summoning you to her side with a brief flick of her wrist.

With such a distance between you, the situation's severity proves challenging to read.  Wordlessly pushing your way through the crowd, rapid footfall alerting some few oblivious Ishgardians who may not have otherwise noticed your presence, Krile leads you to a quiet corner against the fortifications. Be them dire or curious, the contents of her status report must be important to require such discretion, especially after your previous disastrous encounter. Though she dares not display it openly, Krile has been fairly wary of you in her time with the Scions, and you've kept your distance in accordance with her wishes.

“I think we have a moment to talk before the conference begins and, well, I wanted to apologize to you.”

 _That_ is the intent of her summoning? Now is not the time for such pleasantries, not with the looming threat of the Horde's attack, but you’ll not forsake the chance to mend brittle bridges, not after you’ve broken so many others. “Oh? Whatever for?”

“I’ve been distant. Rudely so. I hope it hasn’t soured any friendship we might still build.”

You daren't mention that Krile is not the only Scion keeping their distance.  “I thought you were simply burdened by your introduction to Eorzea. And after we learned of Minfilia. . . Apologies, there’s been much on my mind.  Did I give offense at some point?”

“It’s absurd, really.” Krile reveals rare hesitation; the uncertainty of a woman so normally confident raises your trepidation. “I saw something through the Echo that made me question your motives. I was so cautious; the tales speak of your greatness and such a newcomer to Eorzea couldn’t very well slander a famed heroine - but after that battle with Sephirot, how could I have doubted for a moment?”  At last fully overcoming her hesitation, the rapidly tumbling admission halts as quickly as it began; a faint blush crawls over Krile’s cheeks, embarrassed at the run-on litany. “- so I just wanted to say I’m sorry. I hope we can still be friends?”

“Of course.”  She smiles at you and though you feign one of equal warmth in return, your heart pounds. Almost daily you push others away; who is to say you’ll not do the same to her - _again_? “Krile, what manner of tale birthed such worry?”

“Oh, gods, I can’t even believe it any more. Promise you won’t laugh?” There’s risk in making such promises when you know not what you agree to, but you nod nonetheless. “I thought -” She sighs once more, steeling her nerves. “- I thought you might be possessed by an Ascian.”

All the winds and waters of Coerthas may well have come crashing down upon you at once, leaving naught but numb shock spreading through your limbs, stiff as frozen beasts in the West Highlands. Has your heart stilled, or does it yet race underneath the ice? _Impossible._

Krile prattles on: “I saw some memory of theirs. There were two of them.  It was very brief and it felt like it came from you, but there must have been one lurking nearby -”

Yet amidst distress, warmth blooms; amusement at Krile’s flustered babbling proves an anchoring pleasure, one that keeps you afloat in the tumultuous swell of emotions building in your chest. “That _is_ serious. I can see why it would give you pause.”

_The Emissary's presence was no coincidence._

Krile’s relief is enough assurance that your turmoil remains private. “I’m so glad you understand! I was still so new here, and - well, I’m starting to repeat myself, aren’t I? I hope we can move past this now.”

“Yes. . . thank you for telling me.” The pretense rewards you with a radiant smile as she waves and turns to resume her patrols. _Does a shadow lurk within you, listening, even now -_

Krile must be mistaken.  ‘Twould not be the first time Hydaelyn granted Her servants visions of Darkness and Ascians. She once gifted you knowledge as well; the Blade of Light rose from within as if from forgotten memory, revealing the potential depths of Her influence over Her children.

Hydaelyn, Hydaelyn, all meddling leads back to Hydaelyn.

 _Nay_ , that’s not -

The last remnants of warmth Krile’s presence provided flicker and fade, leaving you only surrounded by the bare cold stone of Falcon’s Nest; when did your thought process so mutate?

Surely ‘tis imagination and naught more; the disgust at what Hydaelyn has done to Minfilia - Her secrecy and Her demands - swells solely of your experience - not these uncharacteristically irritable delusions.

_Hear -_

Faint whispers of memory that are more than illusion.

_Feel -_

Growing disgust feeds determination; through unmatched passion does pride bloom.

_Think -_

Secretive meetings in the night, their meanings ne’er elusive, were you only to -

You shake your head clear of such condemning thoughts, daring not tread the clearest path.

‘Tis all such lunacy; logic dictates the simplest answer must be the truest.  Krile’s vision was a misunderstanding; visions without control of the Gift are often unclear.

And even if naught but this basest hope drives you forward, you’ll cling as tightly as you can for as long as you must.

Shout or cry, an intrusive echo blessedly disrupts the damning abyss and returns your attention to the assignment.

Aye, guard duty.  Such irresponsible lapses cannot be tolerated; if aught happens while you’re on watch -

Frantic scuffling overtakes your senses; heavy footfall and cries - panic and anger both - reveal your failure.  No light disturbance would disrupt the entire fort and your gaze immediately darts to the vulnerable Lord Commander.

A duty you know well; a clarifying responsibility that banishes the darkness.  The role’s familiarity births confidence, dispelling the chill of icey droplets on your cheeks.

You make it no more than two paces before you still; as if one mind, every Ishgardian’s focus locks onto the sky, prey warily eyeing a yet unseen predator, and with the motion silence’s intangible burden falls. As if from a wave of despair, a heavy weight  visibly slumps the knights’ shoulders; a foreboding omen, one that churns your stomach. With bated breath, you hesitantly follow their gaze.

Red engulfs your vision, tearing down tenuous walls of restraint.

Your teeth grit; _that_ infernal eye etches into raw flesh, its owner having overtaken a vulnerable host.  That was to be _your_ tool; they were _all_ your tools. It was instead abused by traitors and used to end _her_.

Barely disguised tremors send a tingling tenseness suffusing through your muscles; glazed eyes unblinking, barely heeding the growing blur, his visage etches itself clearly into your mind, solidifying your purpose. This abomination - this abhorrent chimera -  must meet his end. Too long have others interfered -

At the edge of your hearing, the Wyrm’s presence inspires chaos.  Theirs is naught but a negligible buzz; ‘tis a name, spoken in half panic by a voice you cannot put face to, that commands your attention, drawing you like vilekin to flame.

 _That_ accursed name.

 _Your_ name.

Be it from anger or irony, a harsh sound erupts from your throat, somewhere between snarl and laughter. 

As it once was;

As it was ever intended to be.

But ne’er like this.


	21. Despair and Desperation

Feet strike worn stone - heavily, rapidly - doorways and turns a peripheral blur.

Would that _those_ thoughts obscure themselves so easily; they pursue with the tenacity of a hunting hound and any hesitation might well be a pitfall leading to your demise.

‘Tis not true. She was mistaken. Even Krile knew she was mistaken.

Something hard halts forward movement and for a brief moment what little control remaining within your flesh falters as you tumble through the air. The uneven, sharp edges of a stairwell meet gloved hands, immediately shredding the top layer of worn leathers.  

A step to stop a step; the feral beasts circle their vulnerable supper.

Ragged, high-pitched laughter tumbles from your lips, grating your ears, but you’ve no recollection of commanding such hysterics.

Alphinaud asked for a friend to whom he could unburden his heart.

Impossible. You’re in no state to mend yourself, let alone indulge his insecurities.

Nay, the need now is for focus. Direction. A mission. 

Up and forward, you continue; the Temple Knight acting as gatekeeper to Ishgard’s Lord Commander attempts interference, but he withers easily before a demanding glare. As he steps aside without further complaint, calm slowly descends and douses your frenzy.  How convenient that there are so few places from which you would truly be barred; few would deny such a well-known hero aught within their power to grant, especially if presented with promises of future favors.

The heavy door yields as easily as its guard, startling the room’s sole occupant. Aymeric meets your gaze with an irritated scowl; be it from recent events or your hasty intrusion, he wears his exasperated vulnerability clearly, but returns his attention to the page before him quickly enough.

Aymeric, too, suffers the urgency of his duty; after the wyrm’s appearance at Falcon’s Nest, it seems he returned to his office and began writing so quickly that he’d not bothered to light the candles on its overbearing stone walls, the lone lamp on his desk cascading long, flickering shadows across his features.

“Forgive me, my friend. These orders must needs be issued to our knights immediately.” A statement challenging in its finality; he dips his quill in ink as if to punctuate its severity and, in so doing, conveys his dismissal.

But you’ve not fallen so far that you’ll be discarded as easily as common rubbish.  So eager was Aymeric to have your aid in reserve when you last met; he’ll find you no mere tool of convenience, he’ll have your guidance _now_. “What are your plans? I will assist, if you but tell me how.”

The quill’s tip hovers half an inch from parchment; ever the dutiful commander, Aymeric refuses to set aside his duty, even as he gathers his thoughts. “I mean to draw Nidhogg’s shade to a confrontation by sending ranging parties to provoke his brood.” His words are heavy and weary, just as they surely were in his heart before speaking them.

He's loath to raise a hand against his friend; even now he wishes to preserve Estinien while destroying Nidhogg. A predictable desire; a _convenient_ desire.

“A confrontation? How would you battle Nidhogg? Your arrow --”

“I don’t know!” In one swift motion, he slams his quill down and shoves his chair back from the desk with a long screech.  Standing at full height, his chest heaves under and erratic breaths.  Turning from you, Aymeric pinches the bridge of his nose, desperately seeking to regain some semblance of composure.

“Demanding that bow must have been difficult.” He offers no indication he hears you, silent and still in response, focusing on calming his heaving breaths. “I admire that you chose to fire it for yourself rather than order an archer to do it. Even now you refuse to ask for my help.” Another calculated pause, one that rewards you with a pained sigh. “It must be that you feel responsible for this.”

“Had I been a better friend - helped him quell his rage rather than ask him to harness it for Ishgard. . .” He turns in attempt to conceal unmasked despair. “Now, all of Ishgard is in danger.”

Such doubts weave a tale of narcissism unlike Aymeric’s usual ambitionless humility, placing him at the center of events that had little to do with him. Estinien’s rage would never have been quelled by so simple a gesture. If Aymeric seeks absolution, he’ll find none from you. “It isn’t too late for you to atone, but you’ll not do it with arrows.” With an extended hand, you await his inevitable acceptance; Aymeric’s not fool enough to reject your offer of aid, no matter how intensely doubt gnaws at him.

They ne’er do.

Aymeric swallows, gaze boring into your open palm, then darting from the floor to the lanterns, refusing to meet your eyes, each muscle tense until nigh ready to snap.  At long last he exhales, slowly grasping your hand with trembling fingers.

A reassuring smile is Aymeric’s reward, a gift that makes him fidget uncharacteristically even though you bear no insincerity; your goal to destroy the eyes and any host that challenges you remains unchanged. With an awkward cough, his fingers slither from your grasp, the tension at long last leaving his muscles as his attentions return to the parchment bearing half-written, hasty commands. “If we do not draw him out prematurely, we’ll be left at his mercy when he returns at full strength.”

“Aymeric,” you chide gently, “even as he is now, you could not hope to defeat this reborn Nidhogg with every able-bodied fighter in Ishgard behind you. That he has escaped you is a blessing. Your world would have returned to ash.” Such implications make your heart skip a beat and quicken your pulse, both.

“What can we do?” His voice is quiet as if shamed,  Aymeric at last overcoming his mistrust.

“Shore your defenses. We must needs acquire power so that we might meet Nidhogg on equal terms when he inevitably returns.”

“That is your role in all this, is it not?” Unknowable possibilities cross his mind, marked only by a crease in his brow. He think so highly of you, but even had you adequate strength, you’ve no intention of banishing this foe on your own.

“You flatter me. But I fear we would need more still. . .Perhaps. . .” Your lips curl in satisfaction as warmth blooms within; you know just the thing to suggest. An image flashes to mind of all of Ishgard kneeling before the statue of Halone that dominates the great cathedral -

You gasp, every muscle suddenly tense.

Had you really just been on the brink of proposing such -

“Perhaps. . .?” Aymeric’s puzzled expression questions your incomplete thought, and his question drags you back from the brink, if only barely.

“The thought seems to have escaped me.” A short, hysterical laugh breaks through panicked stillness; where words once slid easily from your lips, they now prove elusive, your tongue thick. “Shall I inform you the moment I’ve prepared a suitable plan?”

“Please. I shall do the same. Until then, we defend as ever. . .my friend.”

No longer an open tome, Aymeric’s clipped suspicion is barely audible above the pound of your heart; contrary to your original intent, meeting with Aymeric has done naught but worsen your ailment.

Far more quickly than is proper, you flee, once again stumbling into Ishgard’s stinging, crisp air, not even heeding the Ishgardian tradition of departure formalities; freedom from stone’s confines summons the briefest clarity, but you’d sooner shroud your growing intrusive, inappropriate fantasies.

_Nay_ , you’ve not the time to contemplate such ominous foreboding. There are yet duties you might attend;  Alphinaud wished to speak with you privately. Perhaps he will have some request of you that will take your focus away from the horrors birthed of a troubled mind.


	22. Lahabrea

This is what you wanted.

Pausing at weather-worn wood, you trail the ornate Ishgardian patterns with bare fingers.

A duty. A mission. An embrace of an intimately familiar role, that you might once more dispel this darkness.

Without risking further hesitation, Dragonhead’s intercessory door swings open with a firm push, announcing your presence with a prolonged creak. In the flickering candlelight of the private chamber, a peculiarly candid moment awaits; Alphinaud drapes over a chair like a bored teenager, idly tapping his fingers, quickly jumping to attention from his seat to greet you.  Were you not struggling to maintain composure, you might have laughed, but Alphinaud is instead granted the mercy of feigned ignorance.

At the weak smile offered in greeting, Alphinaud gently and politely welcomes you in turn, remarking on your apparent exhaustion as he gestures towards an empty seat across from him.  You must truly look ghastly.

You needn’t be told of your abysmal state, but hold your tongue, instead taking your place at the table.

“I had some cocoa made, but -”

Indeed, a silver mug sits in front of you, brown liquid within devoid of pleasant steam and scent. “I was delayed.” You’ll not explain your comings and goings to excuse cold cocoa.

Nor could you explain if required.

Alphinaud clears his throat, a sure sign of practiced remarks to follow. “It was not all that long ago that we sat here, you and I. In our very own ‘Falling Snows’. . .”

Try as you might to heed him - to be as loyal of companion as expected - a stifled sigh marks the limit of your attention for his recounting of recent history, though indeed your mind wanders to that time. There was only clarity and certainty of mind then, even as the future upended itself in accusations and schemes; when had everything changed?

That day seems like another life now, a page torn from a memory tome and carried to a stranger's hands on a gust of wind.

“Were I still commander of the Braves, I would doubtless have. . .”

Doubtless. . .? Whichever pages allowed you the luxury of doubtlessness have long since been struck through and rewritten. Your head falls forward into your hands, aching for some point to be made, some task to be assigned, _any_ role to play, if blissful silence must elude you.

Had you truly been on the brink of suggesting to Aymeric -

Nay, think of anything but that. Think of -

“I do not want to be a man who sacrifices his friends....”

 _I, I, I._ Naught but a self-absorbed brat playing at being a man.

Guilt follows the condemnation nigh immediately; such crass thoughts are unwarranted and, as with most of late, unlike you.

“. . .we may fail, but we must try.”

Yet is it possible to say what _is_ like you anymore? Thancred noted that you’d changed. . .

The cocoa nearby forms an unappetizing oily sheen over the top as it cools and separates; in the midst of contemplating one of its swirls, you realize silence has descended and look up to meet Alphinaud’s crestfallen stare. “You’ve not heard any of this.”

He cares not for the reason for your distraction or exhaustion, only that you hadn’t been able to focus on his outpourings. How very like him. Like _them_. Like _everyone_ \--

“Nay,” you admit; in desperation you’d selfishly hoped to use your duty to Alphinaud to clear your mind and have failed at even that, making mockery of his troubles in the process. “Excuse me, I am not well.”

Alphinaud stands alone with his thoughts once you shove yourself back from the table and turn to leave, his gaze and expression both fixed on where you were but a moment ago, equal parts dumbfounded and rueful.

How often you’ve seen that look of late; how often you’ve been its cause.

Dirt and snow crunch underfoot as you make your way to the small room allotted you within Dragonhead after your flight from Ul’dah, when Haurchefant had agreed to hide you and yours from any would-be accusers. 'Tis a small, cold thing in a far corner, unwanted by the garrison or civilians that make their homes here, but comforting in that it is yours alone.Its weathered spruce door, long past splinters, gives even more easily to your push than the intercessory.  Untouched by time itself, the cold, windowless chamber remains as always, save the absence of personal effects long since moved to Fortemps manor. 

‘Tis as barren as the plain, unlit stone halls of your dream and somehow even less familiar.

_Dreams._

The enclosed walls are tight, close and low, just like that -

 _Nay._ You reject the panicked delusion before it might grow to more; these walls will not harm you. Tentatively fingertips roam the stone, flinching back even when only the expected cold meets you. Laughter bubbles in your chest at your foolishness and you latch the door closed behind you.

Slowly and sluggishly you work at removing pointlessly constraining armor, normally-deft fingers refusing to heed your command, limited by trembles you equally refuse to acknowledge.

As with the chamber, your bed remains as you left it, untouched by Dragonhead’s denizens; thick patchwork furs rest atop unused linens. Content under their soothing embrace, you curl into the darkest corner, leaning against walls so cold that not even the furs fully mitigate their chill.  All is as you left it: warm, silent, and safe.  There’s no one to disturb you here.

You’ll hurt no one else.

Shadows and stone; you press your eyes closed, the intrusive image etched upon your memory refusing to leave your mind’s eye.  Lefts, rights, bare rooms and long-empty passages, all.  A route as familiar as that of Mor Dhona’s aetheryte to the Rising Stones.

You open your eyes; the stone is different, but the comforting protection of the shadows remains.

‘Tis so hard to differentiate now;

The light you’ve embodied -  
     Her _tainted walls_.  
Claws against your throat -  
     _The fragility of bare flesh under your fingers._  
Raging flames on an unfamiliar shoreline -  
     _Rousing warmth that catches your breath._  
Meetings in the dark -  
     _A familiar touch, now distant._

Violent shudders course your flesh, even as thick furs ward off the Highland chill. It’s not you - _you’d never_ -

The tremors refuse to subside, no matter how strongly you will them into submission.

Just like the thoughts.

This isn’t right; _none_ of it is right.

The Emissary warned of these ‘mending fractures,’ of further intrusive thoughts, but ‘twas not until after his magicks in Falcon’s Nest temporarily gifted you peace that they increased in intensity.

His is a devious hand, preying upon your vulnerability while feigning interest in your tribulations.  As he rightly anticipated, your options grow fewer by the day.  The others, so caught up in their battles, fail to understand, fail to realize -

Just as they failed Thancred.

The Scions remain unreasonable, having expected you to be so flawless - so inhuman -

As it ever should be, a paragon for others to strive towards.

_Nay, that’s - they’ve not -_

And now he’s all that’s left, an Emissary luring you with answers that no one else remains to provide.

Truly, a flawless plan.

Another bout of violent tremors sends the furs falling from your bare shoulders onto the bed.

Fire.

Warmth will purify this madness.

Cloaked in naught but shadow, you rise, approaching the hearth that has served you so well. Devoid of ash, two small logs rest among uneven chunks of kindling; at its side, an empty wood rack.

That they couldn’t even bother to keep your chamber properly stocked while you were away -

You blink, stalling growing hostility.   _That_ anger - that infernal, foreign anger; ‘tis an anger equally familiar and unstoppable, an anger that releases the foulest darkness residing in your heart.

Yet, ‘tis all that remains of clarity, an emotion yours and yours alone, and you’re not wont to let it slip from your grasp again.

As easily as breathing, flames rise from wood at your command, the ferocity of their birth all but exploding the tinder at your feet. From each peak, wisps of black shadow rise; darker than the darkest smoke, their tendrils claim the deepest corners of the room as if they’ve a will of their own.

Heart pounding almost in time with the flame’s crackle, you step back from a fire that gives off no heat, wary of its comforts.  A cold fire of red and black flame; you’ve not encountered the like since -

_Lahabrea._

The name curiously perks your attention, like a call from the far side of a bustling tavern;  
Like a distant summons at the edge of your senses;  
Like the command of a greater force.

_Lahabrea._

With the name comes fragments of memory:

A command -  
A promise on an icy breeze -  
A whisper in the night -  
A curse -  
A warning -

It’s not a bad name; it bears histories, as with any other.

_Lahabrea._

_How long has it been. . .?_

The pieces fall into place, like shards of broken auracite; imperfectly and jaggedly they fit, but undeniably a whole.

Impossible - you saw him.  
_You felt it._  
You heard him.  
_You’d screamed until you’d no more voice, even though ‘twas naught more than an instant._  
_Barred in a prison of death, experiencing terror unlike aught you’ve known -_  
Holding strong no matter how agonizing his screams -  
_The abhorrent, searing light -_  
-white fragments falling to the ground like snow, tinged with wisps of shadow.

_Lahabrea!_

A shrill shriek of mind and body, foreign and barely comprehensible behind harsh, rapid breaths.

“Are you here, _Ascian_?!”  A futile hysteria; he would already know your thoughts, but to speak feels solid - real.

The black flames blur before rapidly moistening eyes; chest heaving, a dizzying maelstrom of shadow swirls until ‘tis unclear if ‘tis true or simply a product of your broken mind.

“Are you done amusing yourself?”  Your stomach heaves, threatening to spill its contents onto the floor.

Lahabrea offers naught but infuriating silence.

Each broken cry swells your throat, each word harder than the last, each breath a bubble exploding from your lungs that sends tremors coursing to every extremity.

You’ve no more strength for his games; surely he knows this. Unable to bear your weight any longer, you collapse, a willing sacrifice beside the black pyre.

“You’ve succeeded - come, take my flesh, I’ll not resist!”

Again and again, nothingness, the only sound filling the tiny chambers remains the crackle inside the hearth and the ragged breaths brought upon by your retches.

As if despairing at your side, shadowy tendrils of darkness still their chaotic flow, returning to soothe the fire’s licks, dancing at your fingertips before melting into the flames.

His flames.  
_Your flames._

Nay - you’ll receive no answer.

_A fool’s charade._

Standing at full height, you laugh humorlessly. You’re not one for denial.

At your call, the black fire rises to meet your fingers.

It’s only ever been you.

At last the darkness escapes its fiery confinement, wisps of shadow swirling at your breast.

There is no shadowy possessor.  
‘Twas you alone who reacted to _that_ name.  
An abhorrent name. An accursed name.  
_Your_ name.


	23. Fading Remnants of a Dream

_Flap, flap._

Relentlessly, a chittering beast continues its pursuit, leathery wingbeats echoing through labyrinthine and nigh identical passages to which there is no exit.

The cavern’s maw opens before you, a boundary of endless width and depth. At bare feet a daunting lake laps, its black waters soothing wounds born from fleeing over sharp, uneven crystalline; a stillness born of chaos’ end, the only disruption of the lake’s dark sheen is the rare drip from stalactites and steady ripples birthed of your uneasy paces at its edge.

Were it not for a persistent irritant, ‘twould be picturesque serenity.

_Flap, flap, flap._

In time with the flaps, your heart pounds, unstable, panic-driven gasps barely gifting succor to burning muscles.

If there’s no escape from the cavern save towards the predator, mayhaps. . .

The depths grumble at your feet, promising salvation just below the lake’s shadowy surface.

_Flap, flap, flap flap._

Nearer and nearer the voidbeast draws, navigating the twisting labyrinth as easily as it might a clear sky, its powerful wings cleansing stale air.  Its prey at last within its sights and barred from escape, the beast cries its victory, all but dancing through the winds in leisurely approach, sinking lower and lower, so that its claws might more easily access flesh and aether.

 _Flap_ -

Again the maw at your feet groans its summons, licking at your toes; risking a brief glance, its surface remains still and unchanged.

In darkness, the promise of safety; in the crystal’s light, a howling predator.

The beast readies its assault and ‘tis no choice at all.

With a tentative step, you breach the lake’s thick, syrupy surface.

_Thump, thump._

Sticky like tar, the fluid impedes your steps like a snowpile half and again your height.  The waters neither reject nor gift promised safety; you are naught but a disruption, alien until proven otherwise.

At your face, wings blow your hair back; at your feet, the leviathan stirs, waters rising from your ankles to your knees.  Groaning waves splash against your chest, droplets landing upon your cheeks, an unnatural indomitability testing the measure of its reach.

You might well be less than the tiniest vilekin when compared to such immense power, yet still it seeks you specifically for its summons. You must needs -

Again the depths rumble, questioning your hesitation, demanding your acquiescence - commanding you partake.

 _What? - How? - Why?_ The orders are equally senseless and coherent. You’ve a role; you must -

The thought slips from your grasp, foundational memories once again elusive, leaving naught but remnants emphasizing imperative obedience.

As if satisfied by the conclusion the soul in its grasp has reached, the shadow makes its choice.  A thin misty film rises independently from the waves, enveloping your extremities; though it does not solidify, the foreign presence proves strangely, protectively familiar.  You’ve no more to fear from the voidsent with this presence at your side.

The waves still as the water level drops; lower and lower still it falls, revealing deep crystalline purple once hidden at your feet.  Freed from the slogging barrier, you at last face your foe with confidence.

In an uneven semicircle around you and your foe, the tides stop; in and out they tease, hints of anticipation present in flowing walls. Barrier growing by the second, the far ends of the cavern are quickly obscured by rising black waters

Nay, not rising.  It _falls,_ shadowy cascades crashing onto the roof as if the world itself has flipped upon its head, droplets of water streaming onto your face; so much water the lake holds that even rare splashes are drenching, leaving uneven trails rapidly coursing down your cheeks and neck.

Recognizing the situation has become unfavorable, the voidsent backs away from the rising tide and its summoner, but ‘tis too late. The barrier is breached, the gate opened.

Past the edge of your sight to unknown heights flows the wall, its groan becoming a roar as the seemingly infinite waters rise until at last they can coalesce no more. As with your entry to the cavern, placid stillness overtakes the waters; with bated breath, your gaze roams to the caverntop, the shadowy lake an impossibly large cloud above you.

The darkness falls with naught but a rumble of warning, tendrils of blackness all but leaping ahead of the distant waters, anticipating and enacting your will with violent eagerness. With a satisfying splat, the voidsent wails, pierced by foreign power. Locked within shadow's grasp, it writhes in desperation, each cry urging the the tendrils to pierce more deeply and encircle more tightly.

The darkness roars in satisfaction at its newfound freedom, drowning out voidsent shrieks of terror, and you can but smile as the full weight of the lake crashes down upon you.

With a start you awaken, sticky and smothered, though the air is chill and the furs are long since pushed away.  Heart pounding - be it from fear or excitement - your gaze darts around the room, but unpleasant truths immediately draw you back against the wall, clenching your teeth.

All is as you left it, save the presence of the weakest imp, small and fragile, not unlike the dependent creatures you sometimes permit to follow you about.  The creature flails, shrieking in panic. Writhing in the darkness, its wings clutch at its sides, wails turning to moans as its essence leaks from its container, its flesh torn apart by tendrils of darkness in cruel mimicky of the larger beast in your dream.

Aye, a dream; this time was unlike the previous.  This was no brief flash of twisted, shared memory; the cavern was a location solely of imagination’s creation. ‘Twas naught but a normal dream for the first time in only the Gods know how long.

It might have been relieving, had the rapidly dissipating creature not walked from your fantasies.

-  And had you not just tore it apart as easily as you might a dry autumn leaf.

A brief glance around an all too clear room reveals it to be as empty as ‘twas when you returned; untended, the comforting fire is long since doused, there’s been no intrusion, nor aught that might have hinted at ritual summoning. By all rights, Voidsent presence should be an imposs-

Shearing the thought clean from your mind, a trembling, pulsing wave, concentrated singularly near the fire pit, reveals the answer. The sundering in Hydaelyn’s walls, a temporary tear in the veil near the pit's warmth where you had birthed those dark magicks, ephemeral enough that only the weakest voidsent might take advantage of it, was not present before you fell into slumber.

Nay -  
You’d never - not willingly -

So easily they rose on your fingertips, shadows dancing barely under your control.  In your instability, the possibility is undeniable that you are at fault for the rift’s creation - and might well repeat such a mistake.  The next time it happens, the creature summoned might not be so harmless.

You daren’t consider further implications of your weakness.

With such an unconfined ailment, until you can command this curse - until you can control _yourself_ \- you must needs minimize collateral damage from any accidental summons, remaining where the inhabitants can banish voidsent and darkness is kept at bay.

‘Tis no dilemma at all; you’d sooner not endanger your friends, no matter how few continue calling themselves that, but there are none better to deal with such a threat.

_Threat._

A trait you’d never thought would be necessary to assign yourself.

Lifting stifling armors, you hesitate.  If necessity demands words be put to your predicament, you’d sooner not do so full armed and armored. In effort to minimize unpleasant assumptions, you pull lighter garments from your sack and replace the armor, scanning the room quickly for any remaining effects and unlatching the door.

The residence is as empty as when you entered, your presence naught but the hints of a shadow.

Comforting in their familiarity, the words of teleportation fall from your lips, drawing you from the darkness of Dragonhead to the indigo of Mor Dhona’s morning light.

Hardly a moment after your entry into the Rising Stones, familiarity registers faintly at the edge of your awareness, condemning the formal greetings of sparse Domans to deaf ears as you strain to make sense of the placid essence in Minfilia’s solar. Illogically attracting like a faint scent on the air, _he_ solidifies at the back of your senses.  Yet however calming, however faint, he rouses none of the earlier peace; leaving you answerless even as he knows full well what you’ve become, his is not a presence you are full keen on welcoming once more.

Only _now_ does he conveniently reappear, bearing answers. There can be no other reason for his timely arrival; aye, you’ll have your answers - and he’ll regret having kept them from you for so long.

Newfound purpose tempered by rage, you stride past Tataru’s unstaffed desk, pushing into the solar with far more force than is necessary.

Stillness and silence greet you, a brief gust of wind playing at the hem of the unexpectedly lone occupant’s robes. “Unukalhai. . .?”

Your abrupt entrance earns a shocked gasp, the tome in which said boy had been engrossed tumbling from limp fingers onto the floor with a _thump_.  “Y-yes?”

 _He_ was ne’er in the Stones, ‘twas only ever Unukalhai, with a presence so very much like -

Naught but a faint echo, a mark borne on his soul since his uplifting, Unukalhai’s previously unseen nature reveals itself through knowledge that by all rights you should not have. His attire and evasive speech arouse suspicion, of course, but the boy had made no other attempt to conceal himself, truth plain to anyone with the knowledge.

So easily recognizable for what he is, surely Unukalhai observes similar curses rousing within you.

Unukalhai breaks awkward silence with a small-voiced greeting, taken aback by your sudden arrival. “Good day.”

The tumult of emotion withers; he is naught but a boy, faultless of his master’s evasions. Nay, contrarily, he is uniquely positioned to lend you his aid.  “I must speak with your master. Immediately.”

Contrasting Unukalhai’s earlier preparations, easily shrugging off probing questions and demands regarding his affiliations, his confidence falters. “H-he does not wish -”

“- to reveal himself, yes.” Dismissing rehearsed evasions, you push, needing only to convince him to aid in initial contact.  “You’ll find he is expecting me.”

Shifting his weight from one foot to the other and nervously wringing his hands, Unukalhai endures your unwavering presence to the best of his ability. Fidgety silence speaks more of his assignment than words, the very nature of his mission seemingly at stake only from the simplest knowledge.

Remaining unyielding even when facing your anger, ‘tis clear the strength of Unukalhai’s will; Elidibus chose well. With a sigh, your command softens to a request in hopes of easing the boy’s discomfort. “You needn’t fear, I’ve no intention of abandoning our shared duty; the Triad will yet fall, but ‘tis imperative that I speak with him. If he declines, so be it, but I’m certain he will not.” Clear even behind his downtilted mask, the hitch in his breath reveals growing hesitation; he’ll soon be unable to resist your request, you need but a final push.

“I _need_ this.”

Unukalhai releases a defeated breath.  “As you wish. He may not be available immediately, but I will ask.” A brief assault of irritation is easily dismissed, paradoxically comforting in its familiarity. How very like the Emissary to heed summons solely on his terms.

Foreign though it might be, the knowledge is not fully unwelcome.

A heavy silence descends, Unukalhai continuing to idly pick at his gloves, twisting his fingers before at last reaching down to pick up his forgotten tome, holding it to his chest; ne’er before have you caused him such deep discomfort.

You cannot but hope that this request does not break diligently built, if tenuous, respect.

With cautious strides, he approaches.  “What has happened to you? You are. . .unstable.” Barely audible, his voice bespeaks a concern as genuine and thorough as you’ve ever heard.  Near enough to touch, he hesitantly raises his free hand, nigh ready to reach out, but thinks immediately better of it, withdrawing an extra pace towards the door.

“Is it so obvious?”

“The aether that makes up your essence is in conflict. I can sense it - as will your friends with their tools.  It would be best to take care to avoid the Scions until your situation improves.”  Formal bow tainted by his dire warning, Unukalhai whispers low, as if uncertain he wishes for you to hear.  “I know it will. If anyone can. . .”

Breath you’d not known you were holding leaves your chest alongside his exit, knowing full well the truth of dire warning.

No matter what happens, they cannot know.

 

* * *

 

_Crunch._

A morning mist after rain; a milky grey blotting out the rising sun on the far horizon.  

_Crunch._

Above light footsteps, the muted chirps of hunting birds in the distance break blessed silence.

Such is your ledge, a damp, wet, and peaceful perch, the Hinterlands spanning nigh endlessly at your feet.

They’ll not see you here.

Delicate and light, the linkpearl rests in your palm, impatient voices audible even from a distance.   Theirs was a hasty message, urgent and persistent, just like back then, back before -

There need not be such pessimism; if all goes well, you’ll soon have your answers and such dire fantasties will recede into the forgotten past.

The titan further rises from Her bowels, they claim, and you see the truth of it.  Another arm lifts from the lake, even the simplest motion draining the Hinterlands of its ambient aether enough to prevent further rising.

A rise followed by stillness and silence, resting until it might awaken yet further. The draining  recurrences might persist over millennia, if untouched. Such is the nature of this grand, cyclical creation. With raised hand, you reach out; mayhap some assistance is in order -

An erratic stumble forcefully subdues abhorrent thoughts; no matter how right they might seem - and how desperately you wish to heed them - they must ne’er be acted upon.  Daily though the affliction deepens, with progress comes awareness of its continued presence; there is yet hope that you might regain control.

 _Which_ you, the nagging whisper at the back of your mind taunts, and you push it away, choosing instead to return your attention to your friends.

Their fussing has stopped; with Mide’s arrival they’ve seemingly chosen to act without you. Y’shtola prepares to aid Mide as well, though she seems distracted, her sightless gaze locked upon something unseen in the distance, almost as if -

As if she watches you.

_Impossible._

Unukalhai’s soft voice calls from your memory, dispelling remaining hopes; Y’shtola, with her unique talent, will be able to tell.  If you approach, she will recognize the changes - recognize _him._

_You._

_If you go down there, how long will your resistance last?  
_

You can’t -  
You _won’t_ put them in any danger.

A decision, a solution to a question you knew not you had.  Your hand closes around the buzzing linkpearl.

These are not risks you’ll allow.

Again you raise your arm, opening your fist and releasing its contents into the water below.

It’s better this way. A more suitable arrangement, for all parties.

Refusing further hesitation, you turn from the ledge, disappearing into the mists.


	24. Truth

Mayhaps, in the distant sea, a storm rages.

On occasion, a wave larger than the others crashes into Vesper Bay’s quay, interrupting blessed stillness with brief sprays of salty water and drowning out the otherwise disruptive pound of your slow, deliberate footfall. 

So deeply into the night, even the most drunken tavern revelers are long since returned to their dwellings, stumbling into dreamless stupors. Temptation whispers of brief indulgence in similar respite, wallowing in darkness under the moonlit sky, but necessity allows you no such pleasure.

Hesitantly slipping out of the breeze and into the unlit sandstone entryway that once served as Tataru’s station, a glance at your side confirms Unukalhai’s diligence; a consistent shadow keeping pace at a step behind, he closes and latches the door with a gentle click.

Unukalhai’s assurances of Urianger’s absence prove accurate; through fortune, fate, or some other contrivance, you’ll have the Sands to yourselves. Yet without its remaining inhabitants, the building contains naught but cold, unwelcoming darkness.

For so long this place had been like home that steps down the familiar, isolated staircase come easily, even in the lowest light.  Unukalhai has no such experience, fiddling about in spare boxes until at last the room is illuminated in golden by wavering candlelight.

The door yields easily, strangely unwarded, both silence and shadow settling absolutely within. 

It hasn’t been this quiet here since. . .

_Gunshots rang out and fell silent, each body fallen where it stood like a puppet with cut strings, blood pooling, seeping into the carpets -_

_It remains, settling deep in the fabric, even now._

A faltering shudder returns your attention to the present and you clear your throat; ‘tis not the time for displays of vulnerability. “Shall we use the old solar?”

“Aye.” His voice carries uncommon tenseness, speaking as you proceed across thick, muffling, _stained_ carpets. “You are familiar with the tale of this star and its reflections, I am told?”

Such a strange topic to breach, on this of all nights; you offer a brief sound of affirmation, willing him to continue.

“I was born of a different star - perhaps the reflection you are most familiar with. I awakened to the Echo as a child, but without Her Blessing, there was naught I could do to save my dying world.” He stills outside the solar, candlelight motionless in the stagnant air. “Nevertheless, I _tried_. And I failed.”

Even through his concealment, a brief crack in his voice reveals the depths of Unukalhai’s emotions.

“As I lay broken and defeated. . .I was saved. I was offered a chance to prevent the tragedy of the Void from reoccurring. When I agreed, my new master safeguarded my soul within the Rift and taught me of the failure of balance that doomed us.”

Quickly brushing aside an irrational flare of irritation, you deny his evasive dance so that you might continue to the meeting. “And Elidibus deemed the Triad enough of a ‘failure of balance’ to send you?”

Unukalhai immediately grasps your intent; he’s well past needing to hide his master’s identity.  “Yes. He could not help you directly; Hydaelyn's champions would never have trusted him. Please understand.”

So there is some point to his tale after all, his insecurity an understandable burden; nonetheless, growing impatience refuses to be doused and no matter the weight of Unukalhai’s history, you must needs move forward. If naught else, that is within your power.  You gesture toward the door.

With a loud exhale, sharing your eagerness to clear looming anxieties, Unukalhai enters the solar your side.

Empty and black, the solar is heavy with shades of memories; Unukalhai does not share your lamentation, the weight of the chamber lost upon him.  How convenient that ‘twas here Elidibus first made contact with the Scions - where you first -

No.

-That’s not right, but the truth continues its frustrating evasions, teasing wisps refusing solidify into memory.

Small comfort though it might be, there is relief in the knowledge that you do not suffer progressive madness and that veiled memories truly, stubbornly exist, piercing the shroud of your essence, all the while consistently refusing to heed any summons.

And you are come to tame them.

The clench of your fists is visible enough in the flickering light that it provokes a concerned, if easily dismissed, whisper from your companion.  Now resting on the abandoned desk, the candlelight’s inconsistent licks reveal any internal struggles that you’d sooner not share with one of the few remaining individuals to yet respect you.  You cannot but hope the rapid shake of your head is enough to temporarily dissuade him. 

At the depths of your mind, a distracting twinge instinctively summons your focus; like a prey animal alert to a twig’s snap in the forest, your heart beats, attentions drawn to a _change_.

A tear, where dark becomes Dark and shadow births Shadow.

You’d caution when sensing this once, but now -

_Now-_

Aught else but amusement at Elidibus arriving only when he chooses seems utterly nonsensical. His is a welcome, if trying, familiarity, in these most tenuous of times.

 _That_ memory, if naught else, proves reliable; the veil ripples and folds, intrusive essence bleeding like a wound from the gaping hole. Open only long enough for his passage, it quickly reforms, soothing away the flawed creation and leaving Her barrier smooth and untouched. 

Even at your back, Elidibus’ visage is clear in your mind’s eye: white-clad, deeply held pride beneath a facade of placidity; on his lips, doubtless, the faintest traces of a smile.

Turning to him, there is some brimming satisfaction in expectation becoming truth; the flickering glow of candlelight reflects off pale robes, purple adornment so different from the others, and _those_ lips with _that_ smirk, no darkness to conceal his satisfaction at your open acknowledgement.

Such is the enigma awaiting acknowledgement.

He greets with a long, silent appraisal, doubtless weighing the changes within you - and the necessity of promised truths.

 _You should not trust him,_ rationality rears itself from the back of your mind.  
_He’s no threat,_ _I am yet of use to him_ counters whispers from the darkest recesses, that, notably, do not disagree.

You need Elidibus, no matter his intentions, and ‘tis absurd to regret the summons when you’ve no viable alternative.

The light patter of Unukalhai’s footfall and his tense voice breaks anticipatory silence.  “I will go and allow you to discuss -”

“Stay a moment. This concerns you as well.”

“Yes, master.”  From willful and distant to submissive and dutiful, the servant reveals his nature only before the master.

Elidibus directs a calm voice to the rigid Unukalhai, urging relaxation gently without demanding it directly. “Did you share your tale as I asked?”

“Briefly.” Even with - or perhaps because of - Elidibus’ soothing, Unukalhai’s uncertainty reveals itself.

“The conditions of your world’s fall?”

Unukalhai shakes his head and Elidibus silently commands he continue. The stoic boy, normally reserved but ne’er before hesitant, only tentatively sees to his master’s wish, reciting his tale stiffly, as if reading from a tome.  “In their desperate battle to fight off our star’s Ascian, our Warriors of Light turned to a weapon called auracite which allowed them to trap and harness the power of primals. The primals’ essences, however, leaked from their imperfect containers and corrupted the auracite wielders. They became the same monstrous, aether-hungry fiends the primals had been. ‘Twas their ravenous consumption that brought the darkness.”

A servant is ever the tool of the master, and at last Elidibus reveals his promised hand: Unukalhai. He needs naught else.

Silence lingers and looms, blanketing the Sands like the muffle during a heavy snowfall such that breaths are deafening in your ears.  The unknown dangers of auracite settle heavily in your stomach, tale ringing far too truly for comfort; a convenient tool, but corrupting when used without restraint, eternally tainting the wielder.  Seconds tick by, marked only by your heart’s fluttery beats, until at long last your tongue heeds you. “Is there more you can tell me of auracite?”

For the first time this night, Elidibus addresses you directly and with a pity that promises to cast you out on a maelstrom of emotion. “You would know better than us, midst its transformation as you are. Though ‘twas no primal captured that day.”

All Ascian knowledge comes with cost and Elidibus’ is no different.

Fragments fit together in a sequential chain, final truths completing the broken puzzle of your existence.

Auracite -  
A corruption that destroyed a star -  
The contradictory memory of death at your own hands -  
Of suffering beyond agony.

Trembles course your flesh in a violent shudder; the barest hints of the agonizing dream send your stomach twisting and knotting, overfilled with nervous vilekin flapping about, eager for escape.

Try as you might, the tremors refuse to subside, painful in intensity and frequency. From the corner of your eye, barely recognizable midst your writhing,  Unukalhai’s posture sinks and he averts his gaze, his master’s clawed glove falling heavy onto his shoulder in comfort.

Through unspoken command or simple understanding, Unukalhai pushes past you and Elidibus, excusing himself; keeping his gaze locked on the floor, ‘tis uncertain whether the muffled apology under his breath after a stilted ‘farewell’ is reality or desperate fantasy.

He closes the door lightly behind him, the _click_ of its handle painfully sharp.  Refusing to permit Elidibus the satisfaction of witnessing your growing tumult of emotions, you keep your back to him, focusing on each detail of the aged wooden exit.

“I never -” Uncharacteristically halting, words fail you. “- ‘twas destroyed, ne’er wielded in that. . .”

“How the auracite was wielded is a pointless distinction when ‘tis unclear from moment to moment whether you are Lahabrea or instead his greatest foe.”

With Unukalhai’s absence, Elidibus has no more need for pretense; underlying his gentle demeanor is a firmness that brooks no protests.

“You know I speak the truth.” Despite his placidity, you nigh instinctively contradict him, but quickly think better of it.   _This_ is the truth you summoned Elidibus for and you would be fool to deny him.

After all, he only confirms that which you know.

“Can it be cleansed?” Low and nigh unrecognizable, yours is a despairingly plea for fragments of hope you’ve yet to grasp.

Irreparably twisted in mind and flesh, tainted by feelings both foreign and not, eternally suffering madness in truth -

Elidibus’ hesitation, notable in both rarity and length, speaks more than words, overcoming otherwise chill aloofness. “I know not.”

A glance down at bare hands is clear reminder of the loathsome being you’ve become. Overcome by self-hatred, Elidibus’ untouchable serenity at your back is further evidence of your failures and the vehemence in which you despise your frail body births tremors anew. Coursing from your breast to your toes, seething rage bleeds your vision from black to red, fists clenching tightly enough that small, raw crescent moons form in bare flesh. With no proper outlet, self-destructive anger is directed inward until your lungs burn. You are _ruined_ -

Firm and steadying, a hand grasps your shoulder, immediately stalling your pitiful tantrum and returning your senses to the present. A simple, distant comfort, Elidibus soothes you as he did Unukalhai: a calming, unyielding strength that stills the venom swirling in your veins and returns your vision to shadow and the caress of candlelight.

Control regained at last, you turn back to the Emissary; he’s naught but a pace away, pacifying discontent and anchoring you to the present with his familiar, commanding essence.

“How deeply you loathe your circumstance.” Elidibus’ solemn, pitiless observation strikes true;  if ‘twas within your ability to subdue this appalling disconnect through will alone, you’d long since have succeeded. “There may yet be ways to quell the conflict within you, that you might properly mend.”

Frustratingly vague, from a man who soothes your turmoil through presence alone.  “You were able to help me before - in Falcon’s Nest.  Why not again?”

With hesitation of length that can no longer be described as brief, Elidibus calculates, weighing the path that must needs be taken.  “This is not the place.” He takes a single step towards you, the pale, unknown metals on his vestments burning golden in the dying light as he offers a hand. “Allow me to show you something.”

This must have been Elidibus’ plan from the start: a private discussion, on his terms, in a place of his choosing. With Unukalhai’s leave, locale is your sole remaining advantage.

His cost is revealed, but without his knowledge, you’ve no path at all.

Small and reluctant, you nod, acquiescing to Elidibus’ will. Ignoring the niggles of doubt twisting in the back of your mind, you accept his hand and his terms, the familiar swirl of _Elidibus_ fully within your awkward grasp.

So rare, it must be, that you prove so agreeable, for the tug of satisfaction at the Emissary’s lips seems almost beyond his control.

His smile is an intriguing curiosity, concealing secrets both fair and foul.  Does he seek Lahabrea - or the Warrior of Light? What is to be your final fate?

There’s no turning back.

Again the irritating prickle rises, and with its arrival, darkness swirls, blowing out fragile flame before swallowing the room’s sole occupants.


End file.


The conversation was translated from it’s original language.

[20:20] [FC] Gonna have to drop this VA run >.<  
[20:20] (Lilala Lam) щ(ºДºщ)  
[20:20] ((α L.B.)) Waiting on healer  
[20:21] (Markus Millennial) Guys I can’t log off.  
[20:21] (Markus Millennial) mt  
[20:21] (Lilala Lam) Just stay for the run. We’re almost clear.  
[20:21] [FC] Guys I can’t log off.  
[20:22] (Markus Millennial) I’ve gotta go. Too many wipes.  
[20:22] (Chicken Little) Just stay.  
[20:22] [FC] What do you mean?  
[20:22] [FC] ?  
[20:23] ((γ C.L.)) lol brd pull  
Chicken Little has marked Yunii Strife as Do Not Attack.  
[20:23] [FC] I mean I can’t log off.  
[20:23] [FC] Guys I can’t move  
[20:23] [FC] Okay, freaking out now.  
[20:23] [FC] o.o!  
[20:23] [FC] tyihbnoiheg8aoaerfahgeuvriahha  
[20:24] [FC] i can’t talk either  
[20:24] [FC] the hells going on  
[20:24] [FC] help

Another event like the one experienced by Markus Millennial’s player wasn’t experienced again until two months later. By then, however, it was not an isolated event but something that could be likened to a endemic.

One by one, people across the various data centers discovered they couldn’t log out of Final Fantasy XIV. A few sent reports to Square-Enix using the report function within the game, while others who were unsure what was happening panicked, and started using the shout chat function in the game.

This endemic was not taken seriously by the majority of the player base, unfortunately, as those not affected by the strange occurrence denounced these players. For their cries of help they were labelled pranksters, trolls, or the like.

Markus Millennial was last reported to have logged in January 2, 2016. The player likely distanced himself from the game after the incident.

Try as Square-Enix might, the company attempted to establish a cause to these unusually happenings, but between the dates of March 3, 2016 and July 18, 2016 the company maintained that they had no evidence of players being unable to logout of Final Fantasy XIV. Any players reporting such incidents were abusing the report function to propagate a hoax.

The game lead for FFXIV went so far as to address the player base and assure them that the issue was being looked into. Some fans, however, were doubtful any action was being taken.

It wasn’t until August 30, 2016 that the first reported kill was logged, amidst the week long celebration of the games re-launch from August 27, 2013.

[08:01] [6] damn  
[08:02] [6] What’s up Wiz?  
You wave to O’Wizroo Lhrisk  
[08:02] [6] Hey Rock  
Loomy Oswald has logged in.  
[08:02] [6] You gunna be on for llong?>  
[08:02] [6] nee some help  
[08:02] [2] Hunt Found! @ Eastern La Noscea (29.6 , 20.7) KILL IT WITH FIER !!  
[08:02] [FC] hey  
[08:03] [6] Depends. Not on for long. What ddo you need help with?  
[08:03] [6] Probably needs help trolling /b/  
[08:03] [6] nah but like I can’t log out  
[08:04] [6] haha trolololing us?  
[08:04] [2] Nyr 1 sound plz  
[08:02] [FC] Heyo Loomy  
[08:04] [6] … Wiz  
[08:04] [6] Go do that with noobs.  
Herp Derp slaps Lunana Nananana.  
[08:04] [2] Sorry ^^;  
[08:04] [6] its tru  
[08:04] [6] Not us.  
You look disgusted with O’Wizroo Lhrisk.  
[08:05] [6] :/ you were just slamming people for this joke man. It’s not funny.  
[08:05] [6] i’m not joking. Like seriously. I need help.  
[08:05] [6] How am I supposed to help?  
[08:05] [6] I cant get to my phone  
[08:06] [6] its next to my bed  
[08:06] [6] and I live alone  
[08:06] [6] If this ends with a punchline of me calling you a hooker I’m done.  
You shrug at O’Wizroo Lhrisk.  
[08:07] [6] no. I need you to call my fam.  
[08:07] [6] i think I’m dying…  
[08:07] [6] Dramatic much?  
O’Wizroo Lhrisk falls over dead.

The cause of death was left unexplained, and no further examinations were made. The player base at large found this story unsettling, but dedicated to the game. Many shared their sympathies, but made excuses for the death being unrelated to Final Fantasy XIV.

Three weeks later, and three more people died across the game. Two weeks after that, there were five more deaths, and no clear explanation. Plenty of forums and message boards speculated, or posited theories as to the cause, but ultimately there was no basis.

People were dying.

People playing Final Fantasy XIV were dying.

At least, for that time. After the first nine reported cases, no other mysterious deaths occurred. And for a time things looked like they were returning to normal.

However, on January 17, 2017 another incident registered. Square-Enix had, since the nine deaths, mobilized a series of computer codes that would automatically begin recording any events which met certain criteria.

In the recording, half a dozen player characters are seen interacting with one another and communicating. Their interactions were not a part of the original coding of the game, and they enacted gestures which other players could not normally re-create. Their dialogue is also missing, as no chat record exists anywhere in the game.

The players were monitored for a period of one week. During which they did not log out, but were instead seen throughout various areas of the game’s world. They avoided joining any of the game’s dungeons, raids, or additional content that was combat oriented. Their activities were instead confined to activities where combat was either missing completely, or minimal in presence.

After the one week observation period, Square-Enix sought to ban the characters on suspicion of hacking.

The ban failed.

The characters remained online, and active for another week. Upon further investigation they displayed habits typical of any other human being. They slept at the in-game inns, ate food regularly, and continued to interact with one another beyond the normal parameters of the game code.

The major difference between this incident, and all previous ones, was that this happened to a group of people at the same time, and on multiple servers.

Square-Enix has only one recording where audio was detected.

Language: English  
Role: Tank  
Class/Job: Paladin  
>>> Level 60  
>>> iLevel 260  
Instance Type: Raids (Heavensward)  
Instance Name: Alexander - The Heart of the Creator (Savage)  
Character List:  
Bard Tanne (Paladin) - Midlander  
Jolly Glass (Warrior) - Seawolf  
Mewster Purrfect (Ninja) - Sunseeker  
Chun Chunmaru (Dragoon) - Dunesfolk  
Ino Uchiha (Black Mage) - Raen  
Tutei Urumet (Bard) - Xaela  
Misty Foxx (Scholar) - Sunseeker  
Kokoko Kokoko (White Mage) - Dunesfolk


	2. Chapter 2

The players didn’t hit the ground with their characteristic, and physic-defying, landing like they’d normally do. Instead, the players were launched off the mechanical ramp, down onto the circular arena, and every single one of them fell to the ground in a tumble. Soft groans of pain and confusion are clear, but not the same sounds that are coded into Final Fantasy XIV. The ones spoofed through emotes.

No, these are real voices. Their muttering is clearly not programmed as they rise to their feet. Though the camera is setup to show the whole arena, including the boss, the audio recorded sounds as if you were standing right next to the players.

“What the..?” One of them says. It’s a woman, by her voice, though later it was revealed that the player was a man by the name of Michael Johns. They were the player of the character Tutei Urumet, a xaela au’ra with black skin and violet hair. She was the first to be on her feet. “...is this? The game?”

The other players in the party got to their feet not long after, each one taking the time to inspect their bodies. They were in shock. How could they, players from the real world, be stuck in the video game?

“Oh this is so cool!” The voice was accompanied by a whooping cheer. At least for one of the players, things didn’t seem so horrible. Chun Chunmaru, a dragoon player playing a dunesfolk lalafell, quickly ran and stumbled over to the tall, muscular, roegadyn. “Jolly! Look! It’s like my anime!”

“Tony….” The roegadyn, Jolly Glass, a warrior, kneeled down. Concern was plain in their voice because they understood the situation. Or, at least, they thought they did. Either way, their voice picked up a little cheer. Chun Chunmaru’s player was young boy of fifteen. He and Jolly Glass were relatives, with Jolly’s player being the older cousin. The two had started playing together at Jolly’s request, telling his aunt that because of his big move to Seattle, he wanted to be able to do something with his favorite cousin.

The last thing Jolly probably wanted was to make his little cousin scared.

“Tony,” Jolly said again, this time with more resolution in his voice. “It is pretty sweet, huh? We’re gonna have to be careful, though.”

The party spent a few moments amongst themselves -- hesitating to really jump into the fight for fear of what could possibly happen. Afterall, to them the air in the ancient machine-god Alexander was real. According to the only surviving player, Bard Tanne, the immersion was complete during the event. Clothes and armor felt hot and sweaty, the air stifling and thick, a certain quality attributed to it like a mixture of oil, grease, and burning metal.

“It doesn’t look like we can get out the normal way,” the party’s black mage, another au’ra named Ino Uchiha, commented. From the camera’s angle, all that can be seen is how her head is tilted down and one of her hands is raised to her chin in thought. It was one of the few expressions that mimicked the emotes available in Final Fantasy XIV. “None of us can just… leave the duty.”

“And we can’t summon any mounts,” Bard added. Out of all the players, he was the most concerned, and there was something in his voice that captured this concern. A review of all the players showed that Bard’s player -- Alexander Thurning -- was a husband and father, and undoubtedly he was worried about whether or not he would make it back to see his wife and newborn child. “We’re not locked in yet, but it doesn’t look like the game wants us to leave either.”

Turning away from the group, Bard unsheathed his sword and shield.

The whole party watched him with what must have been confused looks. This wasn’t confirmed until Ino spoke up, saying, “Al… what are you thinking?”

“I think we have to beat the raid.”

For a moment, no one said a thing, and in a later interview Alexander Thurning said he wondered why they couldn’t have just waited for the event to end. The decision to fight the raid, he stated, was one of the worst decisions he could have ever made.

“We’ve never beat this floor before, though….” One of the healers, a scantily clad scholar named Misty Foxx, sounded timid. “Do you really think we can do it this time?”

Tutei scoffed and drew her bow out, “We’ve gotten close enough.”

“Forty-five percent isn’t ‘close enough,’ Toots,” the other healer, dunesfolk named Kokoko Kokoko chided. “And there’s no guarantee we’ll even get there. We’ve had days where we don’t make it to 50% until we’ve wiped several times. This isn’t going to be easy.”

“Hey, I’m a bard, remember?” Tutei defended. “I’m just trying to rally our spirit!”

“Jolly,” Bard said, looking over his shoulder, “what do you say?”

“I say it’s crazy,” the warrior replied, being frank. He also looked to Chun Chunmaru, and shook his head. “But I don’t see what else we could do.”

“Right. Now our only problem is how do we activate our abilities?”

“Should be easy. Before it was a click of a button, so shouldn’t it be just as easy now?”

“I hope so, but I haven’t been able to activate any of my defensive skills.”

“You really want to trigger one of those now before we fight?”

“Just Divine Veil.”

“Well, maybe some of them will activate in the heat of battle, you know? Like instinct or reflexes?”

“Really don’t like the sound of that.” Bard put his sword away and ran a hand through his hair, still hesitating. He didn’t want to make a mistake, but they all knew that at this point, someone had to make a decision. “Maybe this won’t be so bad. I mean, this is a game, right? If we mess up, we’ll just respawn at the start.”

The rest of the group nodded. It was a hopeful thought, one that reassured them, though still made them uncomfortable. No one wanted to talk about the elephant in the room -- namely, what happened if they were wrong, and they didn’t respawn?

It was a horrifying idea. Trapped in a difficult raid with no way out except to defeat the boss, and if you died there was no reset. No do-over, no echo.

Ideally, if this was the game, the players had nothing to worry about. According to the story, the heroes didn’t fail, and what were they if not all warriors of light in their own stories?

After a little more talking, some of it strategy and some of it reassuring one another that they were just having another day raiding, the party stepped forward and prepared to take on the boss: Cruise Chaser.

They still worried that they wouldn’t be able to activate their weapon skills and abilities, but Jolly assured each and every one of them would know what to do when the time came. Though the players may not know, the bodies of their characters had trained to do this since day one. They were masters of any weapon, any craft, any profession, that they wanted to be. There was no failure. Not really.

The resulting fight was a slaughter.

After psyching themselves up, the players surged forward with Bard being the main tank. He had managed to successfully concentrate and pull off a successful Shield Lob to begin his rotation, but everything after that was down hill.

Misty Foxx managed to get off a shield on herself, immediately drawing attention away from Bard before he could so much as figure out how to activate Circle of Scorn, let alone a Flash.

Cruise Chaser ripped through the shield with an auto-attack and a tank buster, nearly dropping Misty. Her summon -- Eos -- began casting but was too slow as another auto-attack fell the scholar before they could ever figure out how to properly heal. The summon vanished into the aether in a fleeting spectacle of light.

Cruise Chaser paused long enough to bring up their left arm -- Left Laser Sword was next, and more than half the party now stood in its path. Mewster Purrfect managed to activate their Shukuchi in desperation but threw themselves at the boss instead of away.

Mewster Purrfect, Jolly Glass, Tutei Urumet, Chun Chunmaru, and Ino Uchiha took massive amounts of damage. Statistically speaking, only Jolly Glass was well off while the rest needed healing if they wanted to see anything longer than thirty seconds.

Tutei Urumet was next on the aggro charts, since they were one of the few players who had managed to do any sort of damage with their auto-attack. Otherwise known as knowing how to fire a bow.

Though unable to use any of her abilities, because she had managed to continually hit Cruise Chaser with arrows, Tutei watched almost helplessly as the massive boss loomed over her.

Cruise Chaser let out one more auto-attack, felling the auran bard. 

Cries of desperation and horror echoed throughout the arena as the party was beginning to see what was happening. Blood pooled under the bodies, clear enough to see on the video recording. The players had lost their nerve, and unable to use their abilities freely they panicked.

Chun Chunmaru was quivering in a corner, while Jolly tried his best to get Cruise Chaser’s attention. The warrior roegadyn was joined by Bard, who was continuing to spam Shield Lob to no great effect.

Strangely, reviewing the technical data showed the boss had ignored the aggro charts where the tanks were concerned Almost as if it had chosen to go after specific players.

Optical Sight started charging.

Kokoko and Ino were still in the center, and they failed to get out in time when the center exploded. They both fell to the ground sizzling and charred.

All who were left were Chun Chunmaru, Jolly Glass, and Bard Tanne.

Cruise Chaser turned and headed for Chun Chunmaru, and E.D.D. spawned.

E.D.D. was an additional enemy that appeared, and if the players couldn’t beat down E.D.D. quick enough massive damage would hit the room. Normally, this wouldn’t be a problem with a full party who knew what they were doing, but this was not normal.

E.D.D. turned to Jolly Glass whose attention was fully fixed on Cruise Chaser. One hand was stretched out as he ran towards the boss, screaming, “No! Tony!”

An auto-attack hit the dragoon, and pitiful scream of pain erupted from the dunesfolk. Then the next cleave started to charge as Cruise Chaser brought up its right arm.

E.D.D. hit Jolly, and before the warrior could react, Laser Sword Right activated. Jolly hit the ground split in two.

Bard, who for the most part hadn’t been touched out of sheer luck, watched as both E.D.D. and Cruise Chaser turned to him. Terrified, Alexander Thurning said he was sure the game was playing some cruel joke on him by making him watch his whole party die while he (as a tank) could do nothing to stop the slaughter.

Screaming in defiance, throwing himself into despair and forgoing any sense of self-preservation, Bard rushed forward to meet his end.

But then the video recording blurs, the graphics warp and colors swirl together. The audio recordings imply that Bard, despite being alone, continued fighting long enough after his party died to beat the event.

The player’s interview states that after Jolly’s death, he doesn’t completely remember what happened, but he believes he was able to activate the paladin’s unique defensive ability Hallowed Ground. That alone would have provided him with ten seconds of invulnerability. If by some miracle he was able to activate any other abilities, Bard’s player would have been able to eek out small seconds of survival.

Those seconds appeared to be all that he needed, however. Though the technical data doesn’t say Bard defeated Cruise Chaser, it does state he was forcibly removed from the arena by someone or something.

The last of the audio was Bard, screaming obscenities at Cruise Chaser, right before everything goes quiet and the traditional success fanfare of Final Fantasy can be heard, indicating duty complete -- or a level up.

After the incident, Alexander Thurning quit Final Fantasy XIV completely and has yet to play another MMO. Official testimony of Square Enix shows no such event took place, however the players of Jolly Glass, Chun Chunmaru, Mewster Purrfect, Ino Uchiha, Tutei Urumet, Kokoko Kokoko, and Misty Foxx were all found in their respective homes unresponsive.

The players were all declared dead by medical professionals.

Currently, the character Bard Tanne still exists, but is inaccessible for play. Square-Enix officials locked the account after attempts to delete the character failed. Most curious of all is that the character is equipped with a weapon, shield, and ability that the development team did not program into the game.

Item Name: Creator’s Bane  
Gladiator’s Arm  
Ph. Dmg: ???  
Auto-Attack: ???  
Delay: ---  
Item Level: 1  
GLD PLD  
Lv1

Item Name: Sentinel's Pauldron  
Shield  
Block Str: ???  
Block Rte: ???  
Item Level: 1  
GLD PLD  
Lv 1

Oath of Self  
Spell  
Cast: Instant  
Recast: ---  
[Descriptive Text Error]  
Duration: Life  
Acquired: {PLD Icon} 60+  
Affinity: PLD


	3. Chapter 3

Before we continue any further, I should make it plain that by reading these events, I have either died or disappeared. In accordance to my own wishes, these hand-written notes and findings are being uploaded by an anonymous ally in the hopes that others might take action in my absence.

My name is Victor Prez, and I’m a part-time security consultant. Typically, I’m contractually bound to withhold my client’s information and findings, but the things I found in Final Fantasy XIV could not be withheld from the general public. I do not do this out of spite or anger, but concern and fear.

What you will read are my personal notes, un-edited by my anonymous ally. In the following reading I have chosen to forego lengthy descriptions about the various mechanics within Final Fantasy XIV (hereafter FFXIV or XIV). My intended audience are those interested parties who are familiar with the terminology and jargon surrounding the MMO, and who may be able to expand upon my information to a larger audience; however, if you so choose to stop reading any further I will end my introduction with a warning, and pray that you listen seriously to what it says:

The game is alive. Stop playing it. For the love of God, do not log in.

Dios ayudame.


	4. Chapter 4

Entry 1  
February 17, 2017

[Note: While Victor made his intentions explicitly clear to me, I cannot bring these notes to you in their original format. The transition from his hand-written notes to an electronic medium doesn’t go well, and simply uploading the images provides certain other… issues.

I have taken the liberty to modify his notes into a narrative format without removing any pertinent information. I understand why Victor wanted his notes un-edited; however, it will not serve the purpose of recounting the horrors he discovered.

I felt it necessary to let you all know this before reading further. Certain section may be left in a near-personalized note format, as it highlights Victor’s thought process during his investigation. Please understand, though the format has changed his findings remain the same.]

Synopsis: Initial meeting with client. Client exhibited nervous tendencies, and answered questions with hesitance. Dodged questions, particularly in regard to the recent deaths attributed to their one of their games. Requests for data was denied. Client believes the deaths are unrelated to their game and are instead coincidental. Client requested I examine certain activity from third parties that might be abusing game programming and inserting new code to hijack other characters and perform complex hoaxes. Expressed extreme annoyance at recent events; believes competitors may be at fault.

**10:43 p.m.** El Segunda, CA 

My arrival to the U.S. headquarters of Square-Enix was informal. I had been sent by my agency to act as a scout for a potential job. Normally this entails that I ask a few questions regarding the nature of client’s request, as well as supply them with any information they might need about my agency.

Rates aren’t discussed, usually because the receptionist has already spoken to the clients and informed them that the agency is not cheap. I’m all the happier for it. I’ve worked with small agencies before, and nothing is as awkward as that moment where the client forgot to do their research, or ask their friends how much it’ll cost to hire a private firm.

I was greeted by one of the receptionists, confirmed my meeting, and waited approximately ten minutes before I was escorted back to a sectioned off room. I was introduced to a man by the name of Aaron Fowls. Mr. Fowls was pleasant enough, smiled a lot, but was ultimately concerned with the situation his company now faced.

_Fowls, Aaron_  
Caucasian, late-thirties or early-forties, short brown hair, hazel eyes. No visible tattoos or obvious scarring. Employed by Square-Enix North America, but his position was unconfirmed during the initial meeting.

Mr. Fowls and I discussed the issue. According to Mr. Fowls, the team back at their main branch in Japan claimed that the root of their problem was human in nature, not technological. Someone either within their company, or with direct connection to their servers, was creating stunts that were aimed to drive players away from their game. The crux of their issue was that they didn’t know who was behind the stunts, nor the reasoning. Hence why my firm was contacted. It was their hope that by hiring a private agency they would be able to gather proof of rival company tampering with their system, but they did not rule out lone wolf actors either.

When I began my questioning, Mr. Fowls became vague. In particular, I asked about the method they had used to identify the North American branch as the issue. Mr. Fowls claimed that he was not party to the details, only that “techs” in Japan had found an anomaly that was not computer based. He assured me that if it had been, my firm would not have been contacted.

I asked Mr. Fowls if he could think of anyone who might hold a grudge against the company, and he provided a few names of employees who had been fired or left under less than ideal circumstances. They would be worth checking out, but their motives didn’t indicate any red flags.

Before our meeting concluded, I asked Mr. Fowls if there was a possibility to interview a couple of the workers. He agreed, but asked that I wait a few hours. There was a plan to begin a company meeting within the hour and then most of the workers would be taking lunch.

Session ended roughly **11:11 a.m.**


	5. Chapter 5

Once I was finished with Mr. Fowls I called back to my agency and was informed that I would be taking lead for the case. Due to budgeting issues, and some red tape, the firm couldn’t send someone out again.

I was reassured that I would be compensated.

**12:56 p.m.**

After their meeting and lunch, the first individual I questioned was a woman in her mid-twenties. She was a serious-looking woman with short hair and of asian descent. Her name was Melissa Chun. I had been given her name (along with a list of others) by Mr. Fowls just before he left for his lunch break. Square Enix’s own human resources department had flagged recent suspicious behavior of its employees -- either through their own browsing history on company computers, or through internal reporting.

Melissa Chun had moved to California from Washington where she’d attended college and held a job as an IT Specialist. She’d been hired by the North American branch to act as a go-between for the server company that housed the North American players, or as it was referred to by the employees and players a “data center.”

I had asked Mr. Fowls for a room away from any heavy foot traffic, and set up my camera. When Ms. Chun arrived I introduced myself and explained to her that as good practice I recorded all of my interviews. She understood and signed a consent form I provided after a brief review.

{Video Attachment: _17Feb17 Casefile no 27201308_ }  
>> Play  
.  
.  
.  
.  
Pop-Up Blocker Enabled  
.  
.  
.  
.  
>> Play  
.  
.  
.  
.  
Video Playback Error  
.  
.  
.  
.  
>> View Transcript

Victor Perez: This is Victor Perez on behalf of Syne Inquiry Services. Location is El Segunda, California. Date reads February Seventeen, Twenty-Seventeen. Time now is thirteen o’seven. Miss, would you please state your name and occupation for my records?

Melissa Chun: Yes. My name is Melissa Chun, and I am a IT Specialist.

P: Miss Chun, what do you do specifically for the company?

C: Currently, I deconflict any issues between the North American data center and the company.

P: Does that include negotiating costs?

C: No. Any and all monetary discussions are done through the main branch in Japan. My team and I mostly deal with technical issues and provide potential solutions that we can enable on our end without the requirement of higher approval.

[There’s a short pause. Victor’s flipping through papers for something. Possibly the documents on why Ms. Chun was flagged.]

P: Can you tell me where you were at on January first, twenty-sixteen?

C: Uh, yeah. It was New Years and I had been out partying the night before with some friends.

P: And how about August thirtieth of the same year?

C: ...Uh, I worked that day, but aside from that I honestly couldn’t say.

P: Last month, the seventeenth. Where were you?

C: I requested off, but was denied. There’d been some issue going on in our data center, and they wanted me here to do my usual deconfliction.

P: So you were present at the company between normal working hours?

C: A little after, actually. The issue caused some additional problems, and I didn’t want to leave them for tomorrow. My schedule is already pretty full, and this thing wasn’t helping.

P: What specifically was the issue?

[Pause for several moments.]

P: Ms. Chun?

C: Sorry, it’s just that I’m not really sure how much I’m supposed to say. See, the issue was deemed special and all the workers that day had to sign NDA’s about it. I had to talk circles around the data center people just to avoid violating the agreement.

P: I see. Well, I was hired on behalf of Square Enix to investigate this matter, but if you want to confirm….

C: No, no…. Sorry, it’s not just the NDA. A lot of weird things happened that day and I’m not really sure how to….

P: How about we start from the beginning?

C: Yeah… okay. Uh, well. I guess it started with Charlie. Charlie Reddings. He’s one of our moderators for the game, and he had responded to a number of reports about bugs. Bugs that weren’t typical code bugs.

P: How do you mean?

C: Well, normally players will send in a report about a boss mechanic not functioning normally, or monsters spawning in mid-air off the map…, but this…. These reports were about players being locked out from whole content. NPCs missing, or doing things they normally don’t. Even player characters performing emotes that aren’t programmed into the game.

P: How was Mr. Reddings attempting to handle these reports? You say he’s a moderator, but did he also work for the company as a programmer?

C: No. Charlie is just really friendly. Likes reassuring and helping others whenever he can. I think he came into work that day after playing the game at home so he probably got a dose of confusion first-hand.

[More papers shifting.]

P: Does Mr. Reddings work for the company currently?

C: No. Shortly after the issue he was fired from his position for performance reasons.

P: Do you stay in contact with Mr. Reddings?

C: A little. Mostly through the game when I have time.  
.  
.  
.  
.  
>> Pause


	6. Chapter 6

February 20, 2017  
**9:21 a.m.**

[9:21] (Sun Moonkitty) Excuse me… Can you help me?  
[9:21] (Roy Shatterscream) Hey! Sure. What’s up?  
[9:21] (Sun Moonkitty) Well, my friend and I just started playing, and we need to run this dungeon, but we don’t have four people. We wanted to see if anyone here wanted to run with us?

When was the last time a newbie had asked for help like this? Nowadays most new players had at least one friend who played Final Fantasy Fourteen, or they were already a part of a Free Company.

Charlie stared at his computer screen, brow furrowed as he deliberated whether or not he wanted to spend time helping new players today. Normally, he wasn’t against the idea, but today he had hoped to investigate a rumor that had been circulating the official forums. _Then again,_ he thought, _the rumor isn’t going anywhere._ Besides, when was the last time he’d actually stopped to help a new player? He hadn’t been on the game in weeks out of bitterness, but he missed the game. He missed his friends.

Sighing, Charlie replied and asked for an invitation to Sun’s party.

[9:22] (Roy Shatterscream) What dungeon do you need? Copperbell?  
[9:22] (Sun Moonkitty) Tam-Tara Deepcroft.

“Oh, so they’re a little behind. Must have put off doing the MSQ to level.” Leaning back into his chair, Charlie accepted the party invitation and went over both of the players information. Sun Moonkitty, a lancer, and his pugilist friend Hahasay Yashaha. Sure enough, both players were level twenty.

In Final Fantasy Fourteen, players were required to complete certain content with the help of other. Dungeons were just one of those that required a party of four people, and there were two methods of recruiting your help. Either find players yourself (typically friends) or use a queuing system that placed you with random players from any of the servers in your data center. Dungeons were level restricted, but fortunately for these two players they didn’t have to worry about being locked out of any dungeon just yet. They did have to worry about queue times, however.

Square Enix’s queuing system wasn’t horrible -- at least not so much anymore, and the company was constantly trying to improve it -- but players like Sun and Hahasay, who played damage dealing classes, had the worst time getting random parties together. They were better off collecting party members locally like they had been doing.

[9:23] (Roy Shatterscream) So that makes 3. We just need our healer.  
[9:23] (Hahasay Yashaha) know anyone?  
[9:23] (Roy Shatterscream) No, all my friends are offline.  
[9:23] (Sun Moonkitty) GIve me a little bit! I’ll find somoene! Promise!  
[9:23] (Roy Shatterscream) Sure. I’ve got a few things I can take care of anyways.

Without waiting, Charlie began his teleport. If it was going to be a bit, he could run side content. Get some crafting materials, or play some games at the Gold Saucer. Whatever wasn’t going to lock him into a cutscene or long quest chain.

Charlie huffed as the casting bar rolled on, and the loading screen took over. How many things did he have left to complete before the new expansion dropped?

Too many. He didn’t want to think about it.

[9:27] (Sun Moonkitty) Got someone!  
Paladin Tanne joined the party.

“Oh neat, a White Mage.” Looking at their party list, Charlie mentally prepared himself for what was to come next. Tam-Tara wasn’t going to be challenging, but he didn’t want the two players to be bored just rushing through the dungeon either.

[9:28] (Sun Moonkitty) Should we go?  
[9:28] (Roy Shatterscream) I’m good.  
[9:28] (Hahasay Yashaha) rdy  
[9:29] (Paladin Tanne) Ready here.

It was only a few short seconds later that the dungeon queue window popped up. Charlie had forgotten to turn his volume down, so when the notification sound played, it echoed something loud inside his quiet and mostly empty apartment living room.

Cringing, Charlie hovered his mouse over the accept button while the timer ticked down to automatic dismiss. He shook his head has he clicked, and muttered, “Need to change that setting once we get into the dungeon.”

All party members accepted, and then the screen faded black.

The world faded black.

As if something had decided to block the sun from outside, plunging his whole apartment in darkness. The few lights in his apartment, the ones from the various electronics throughout his home, disappeared.

In their place was emptiness. Eerie, oppressing, and endless. The darkness did not recede. It did not disappear. Not at first anyways. Instead it stuck to the walls of his apartment, creeping closer. He didn’t know how he knew that when he couldn’t see the walls to begin with, but he knew.

Something was in the apartment with him.

Something else happened, then. He didn’t notice at first, but the background noise of daily life was gone. He only noticed it when his hands started to shake, and the sound of flooding water filled his ears in a steady rhythm that matched his heartbeat.

_Thumpthump. Thumpthump. Thumpthump. Thumpthumpthumpthumpthumpthump._

His breathing quickened, and it sounded so odd in the vacuum of quiet. It drowned out the rushing blood in his ears, the chaotic drumming of his heart, but it didn’t stop him from shaking, scared, or the feeling of his heart banging against his chest. Demanding to be let out.

He felt trapped.

The walls had gotten smaller-- no. The thing had gotten closer. It was circling him. He couldn’t move. If he did, it would get him. It would find him. It didn’t know where he was now, but if he moved it would.

The chair disappeared from beneath him, and Charlie fell to the ground with a scream that died after it left his lips.

The silence had swallowed it.

Then, the darkness swallowed him. He shut his eyes tight in fear, expecting something though he didn’t know what. Death, maybe. The thing would eat him. Devour him like some rabid creature from the wild. It would tear into his gut and rip out his stomach.

Or maybe it would feast on his throat first.

He shook violently.

Nothing happened.

Another moment passed, and all at once _something_ happened.

The pressure disappeared. Replaced by damp air that felt stale on his skin. Sound came back too, with the soft lull of water dripping off in the distance among other unfamiliar sounds. The same stale air smelled of must and humidity and… more unfamiliar smells.

Still shaking, Charlie opened his eyes and was greeted with soft torchlight and a gently sloping hallway that wound down to a cavern room with an ominous purple orb floating in the air. Burning sconces were mounted to the wall, but the fickle torchlight failed to fully illuminate the hallway before him.

At first, he didn’t know what to say. The words escaped him, and he wasn’t sure if there was anything to say. Something inside him wanted to scream, however. A primal fear that rose from the pit of his stomach, but caught just shy of his throat. He wanted to scream. He knew he should. Still, something inside him stopped him from doing just that.

_Enemies ahead,_ a small voice told him. _Two._

_That’s right,_ he said to himself. _I know this hallway. I’ve seen it numerous times before over the shoulder of my character. But how did I…?_

Just behind him, a new voice began whimpering. When Charlie turned around, there stood the lancer, Hahasay, looking down at his own hands in disbelief. “W-What’s going on?!” Big brown eyes turned and looked up at Charlie. While lalafel’s looked somewhat like children compared to other races in Final Fantasy Fourteen, any illusion of child-like qualities were thrown out the window when they spoke. Hahasay’s voice was (albeit terrified) rich and he still sounded young. If Charlie had to, he’d have said that Hahasay was in his early to mid-twenties.

The two of them turned to see Sun, who looked just as terrified as Hahasay. Her heterochromia eyes were as large as dish plates, darting back-and-forth between her three party members, and she was clutching at her chest. She wouldn’t say anything for the longest time, but eventually, she managed to get out, “I… I’m a girl….”

_Oh I really do not want to get into this right now._ Crass though it sounded, the party had far bigger things to worry about. Shifting his attention, Charlie looked to their final party member -- the au’ra white mage, Paladin Tanne.

Of the four of them Paladin was the only one who seemed to be the least shocked. Rather, the white mage stopped looking at their hands and allowed them to fall back to their side. They looked back at Charlie with something akin to resolve behind their eyes, and only gave a wordless nod.

Before Charlie could ask any questions, Paladin reached for their staff -- though Charlie had seen its like before, he did not know the name of it, only that it creeped him out. For the staff was not a plain piece of crafted wood or metal, but some living creature that with twigs for arms, eyes that bounced around frantically, flowers above its “head” like hair, and what looked like a mouth that opened and closed as if it were mimicking speech -- twirling it in the air briefly before they enveloped themselves inside a swirling brown-gold aura.

Magic energy gathered at the tip of Paladin’s staff, and after a second of silent chanting, Paladin thrust out his arms to either side. Charlie knew what was happening even before the felt magic coalesce around him, solidifying in an invisible barrier with a sound like metal scraping against metal before being locked together.

“Protect.” A staple spell among healers, it was meant to help ease the damage parties would be faced with during their upcoming battles. It wouldn’t protect from all damage, but it would reduce damage by a small percent. At least, that’s how it functioned when they played the game. Now it was anyone’s guess on how the spell would work.

But how did Paladin know how to cast the spell?

Charlie went to open his mouth, but Sun broke in before he could get a word in, “Uh....R-Roy? I-is that you? C-Can you hear us?”

Puzzled, Charlie looked down at Sun and his brows furrowed. It was only then that he realized he hadn’t said anything, and all of his actions could have been typical of a player character -- not a human being. “Oh, yeah. I’m sorry. Are you guys okay?” He knew they weren’t, but he knew how helpful it could be to someone to just hear those words. That kindness could be like an anchor to some people. In a way, by asking them, they were helping to anchor him as well.

Charlie was just as scared and confused as them -- well, not as Paladin, but they were an outlier -- but no one was going to ask him how he was doing. He was the veteran player here, along with Paladin, while Sun and Hahasay were still green. Charlie was not only dealing with people who were suddenly in a world much different from their own, but in a dungeon no less.

His only thanks was that it was such a low-level dungeon. The four of them were likely to make it out of here alive than they were to die. Still, the notion of death made Charlie uneasy. He didn’t want to gamble as things were.

Looking at the two newbies, Charlie gathered up his courage and put on a brave face. Offering them a gentle, reassuring smile, he said, “So, looks like we’re in something of a unique situation.” Turning to Paladin, Charlie asked, “Can you check the door real quick? If we can avoid the dungeon all together, I think that’d be best.”

Paladin replied with a deep bass voice, “Hmmn. Understood.”

“Do you know what’s going on?” Hahasay’s question dragged Charlie back to the two newbies, and he saw hope on their faces.

Charlie fought to keep his smile up, and hoped the two wouldn’t hear his heart drumming against his ribs. Adrenaline was already starting to kick in, he could feel it. That and the anxious, just out of reach fight-or-flight feeling.

He wanted to run. He wanted to run bad.

“No,” he said honestly. Then clarified, “At least, not the ‘how’ of it.” Taking another look around he rambled on, saying, “If we’re actually in the game we shouldn’t have to worry too much. But without knowing the extent of the game mechanics at play--”

“We shouldn’t count on things like resurrection.” Paladin interrupted, and Charlie nodded to agree. Then, in a brisque tone the White Mage said, “Door’s locked.”

“Looks like we don’t have much of a choice, then.” Turning his back to the rest of the party, Charlie took a few steps forward stared down at his avatar (or rather, body. That was going to take some time to get used to). Before being thrust into the game he’d never considered how much armor weighed, or how restrictive it could feel.

Character movements on the screen were always so fluid, and looked effortless.

“A-are we really going to try and go forward?” asked Sun from behind. Soft footsteps from behind told Charlie the girl was moving to him, and then she was there, looking up at him and no less reassured than before.

_Don’t let them see, he told himself. Don’t let them know._

“We have no choice,” Paladin answered. “The way back is locked, and we have no way to access the menus to quit the dungeon normally. That leaves only two other options: wait here and risk a slow death, or push ahead. And I do not believe any of us are willing to sit around here forever.”

“We’ll take it slow,” Charlie told them. “There are two enemies up ahead that we’ll have to immediately engage, but unless something else has radically changed they shouldn’t pose much of a problem. Sun, Hahasay, you two are melee class DPS so you’re going to have to get up in the enemies face with me.” He paused and looked to Sun whose face had grown pale, “But don’t worry. If I do this right they’ll be too worried about me to spare you a second.”

Sun dropped her eyes, and looked far more timid than Charlie was hoping to see. She mumbled, “Y-yeah…. It’s just….”

Hahasay walked up to her then and placed a hand on her thigh -- which was about has high as his stubby arms would let him reach. “Hey,” he told her, taking the role of supportive friend, “we’re going to be okay.”

Hahasay’s words helped Charlie a bit as well, but not nearly as much as what they were going to have to discuss next.

The Warrior turned around and placed a hand on his hip, leveling his muddy brown eyes at the au’ra. “Alright. Next order of business is to address the elephant in the room.” A small pause stretched out as the newbies looked back and forth between the two men, and a smile spread over Charlie’s lips. “Paladin, how’d you use Protect?”


	7. Chapter 7

Paladin went silent for a moment, and his brow creased as he thought on the question. The moment passed, and the White Mage looked to the rest of the party, saying, “In some ways, it was instinctual.” Pausing, Paladin took out his staff and looked at it. “But in other ways, it was like using skills any other time.”

Charlie furrowed his own brow, “That’s not all that helpful.”

Paladin looked up, seemingly embarrassed, “I know. It’s just difficult for me to describe. Like, I saw everyone and I knew the first thing I had to do was cast Protect. I just, kind of went for the skill on my hotbar like I normally would, but in my mind. I knew what animation to expect so….”

“The magic did the rest.”

“Yes.”

Well, that was somewhat troubling. Assuming the world now functioned as Paladin explained, the players were required to know two pieces of information if they wanted to use their skills. First, they had to know where the skill was on their hotbar prior to being flung into this nightmare; secondly, they had to know the animation. Both conditions required a level of instinctual knowledge that newbie players wouldn’t have. Especially with any new abilities they would learn as they levelled -- provided they were here long enough to level, and Charlie hoped they wouldn’t be.

“Well, that’s not any more helpful,” Charlie muttered. Frustration and despair welled up within the Warrior, but he fought them back as best he could. He then turned to the newbies, Sun and Hahasay, and wondered what he might be able to do for them. Monk as one of the few classes he hadn’t levelled, and dragoon wasn’t much better off. Charlie had only recently gotten it to level thirty -- the level where players unlock the job stone to finally _become_ a dragoon.

_I don’t even know what abilities they might have. Damn._

“Roy...?” It was Sun. Something in Charlie’s face must have worried her, because she looked a little pale again.

Charlie forced his face to relax and smiled again. “Everything’s alright,” He reassured. Then, hopeful, he asked, “Sun, Hahasay, how well do the two of you know your classes?”

The two newbies looked back at one another.

Hahasay spoke first, “Like we said earlier, we’re pretty new to the game.”

“We levelled up as much as we did because we figured this would be like any other RPG,” Sun chimed in. “We figured: the higher our level, the less trouble we’d have with enemies.”

“If only,” Charlie replied with a chuckle.

“What do you mean?”

Paladin stepped in, “In the open world you’ll find yourself handling enemies easily. However, dungeons have a level sync that force you to be at a certain level if you’re too high. As you reach the level cap, you find your gear gets sync’d instead.”

Sun looked as though Paladin’s explanation hadn’t helped. Sighing, Charlie clarified further, “Outside of a this dungeon, Paladin and I might be level sixty -- the current level cap, or highest level a player can achieve. But here, in this dungeon normally, we’re maxed out at only level nineteen. Our gear levels also drop. If they didn’t you’d have players in low-level dungeons running around with powerful end-game equipment.”

“And that’d be overpowered,” Hahasay said. “Okay, I didn’t realize our gear could be locked like that.”

“It’s not unheard of in MMOs,” Charlie continued. “If developers didn’t take measures like this, you could get players who dread doing older content because it’s not a challenge, or they just do something silly like pull the whole dungeon’s worth of enemies. Then you have newer players who can’t get the help they need, or don’t get to experience the dungeons as they’re supposed to be. Furthermore, by forcing players to deal with the content as a challenge, even a nuisance-like challenge, it also provides them with the opportunity to teach new players like yourselves.”

“Is it really all that important though?” Hahasay asked and folded his arms across his chest. “Would it really be all that bad just to drag new players through old dungeons like this?”

Charlie replied with a smile, “If you’re trying to build a positive atmosphere, and a community that’s willing to help one another, I think so.” His smile faded, then, and his voice became serious again, “What do you remember about your classes? This is important so think hard.”

Sun looked down at her palms for a moment, flexing her fingers and balling her hand into a fist. Hesitating at first, she said, “I… um… well I know I’m something like a martial artist. A Pugilist? I punch and kick things?”

“And I’m a Lancer,” Hahasay followed. He took his spear off his back and looked at it. “I stick the pointy end into enemies.”

_Well, they’re not wrong,_ Charlie thought dryly. “But you guys remember your abilities well enough, yeah? You were grinding to level twenty so you used them a lot.”

“Sure,” Hahasay replied with a nonchalant shrug. “I just spam ‘Impulse Drive’ right?”

_“What?”_

“...No?”

Charlie sighed. Impulse Drive was an attack that got stronger if the lancer attacked the enemy from the rear. It was a single attack, and to a new player the high potency -- the measure of how strong an attack could be -- made it appealing to just use repeatedly. Especially considering how much it cost to use at a glance.

Melee fighters, like damage dealing classes such as Pugilists and Lancers (and their respective jobs of Monk and Dragoon) paid to use abilities with what was referred to as “Tactical Points” or more commonly TP. In much the same way that magic users such as Conjurer or Thaumaturge (and their respective jobs of White Mage and Black Mage) used Magic Points, or MP, to pay for their spells, TP was a resource that players had to constantly watch or else they couldn’t use abilities.

And being unable to use your abilities was often a death sentence. Raw damage from a players weapon was never enough to take down an enemy who out matched you, and it's only with the help of abilities and weapon skills that players could be such powerhouses within the game’s world.

But Hahasay was missing out on damage, and actually wasting TP by spamming Impulse Drive. “Look, you should have had an ability called ‘Heavy Thrust’ and at least one other ‘Thrust’ ability as well. Impulse Drive isn’t bad, but right now you should be using the others. Impulse Drive will be more useful to you when you get higher and can do ‘Disembowel’ but for right now just forget it.”

“Oh… okay.” Hahasay sounded a little disappointed, but nodded his understanding all the same.

“What about me…?” Sun’s squeaky-nervous voice drew Charlie’s attention, and his stomach dropped. How was he supposed to help her when he hadn’t even levelled the class?

Thankfully, Paladin swooped in to save them, “Your primary focus should be getting through your stances to keep your buff ‘Greased Lightning’ going for as long as possible. Though, unlike Hahasay you need to worry more about where you stand.”

“How do you mean?”

“Currently, Hahasay only needs to worry about delivering his Heavy Thrust ability from the sides. All other abilities he has can be used from the rear of an enemy where their defense is lower.”

“Oh! Right, and I’ve got abilities that require both the side and the rear, don’t they?”

“That’s right.” For a moment, Sun looked not only reassured, but happy. As though she’d forgotten their situation for the briefest second. It warmed Charlie’s heart to see a newbie being so involved in the game, but then her smile started to fade, and so too did the warmth Charlie felt. “But… I don’t remember what abilities did what.”

Stepping forward, Paladin rested a hand on Sun’s shoulder and gave the closest thing to a reassuring smile that a male au’ra face could manage. “Sadly, neither do I. However, should Roy and Hahasay do their part faithfully, as should I, then you should have ample room to figure it out as we go along. But we cannot remain here.”

With that, Paladin looked up at Charlie and in return the Warrior nodded a silent understanding that passed between them.

It was time to take on the first mob of enemies.

Charlie turned to face the hallway before the party and swallowed back a lump in his throat. Down the snaking hallway, barely visible from where they all stood, two enemies stood waiting.

_I guess we can assume that the NPCs act more or less to their original programming,_ he thought. For Charlie, at least, this was reassuring since it meant they wouldn’t have to worry about strange roaming enemies that could make battles much worse. Still… he worried that things weren’t all as they appeared. _Only way we’ll know is if we go. I need to set the pace._

Inhaling deeply, Charlie reached back behind himself and closed his hands around the sturdy handle of his axe. Though it carried the blood-splattered appearance of the fabled weapon Bravura, it was something else entirely. And if not for the level sync mechanics that likely limited his abilities now, Charlie could rip through every enemy in the dungeon effortlessly.

There was a strange feeling of familiarity when the axe was resting in both of his hands. As though he knew it better than a childhood friend, or had carried it with him through countless struggles.

And in a way, he had.

_Just one more challenge to face, Bravura._

With that, Charlie lumbered forward, his heavy armor announcing his presence to the whole dungeon. And to any thing that couldn’t hear the heavy clank of his armor, when the two enemy lancers were near enough, Charlie let out an inhuman roar.

He let instinct take over, shifting his hands on the handle of his axe as he hefted it high over his head and felt a surge of _something_ roll through him and into his weapon.

Charlie didn’t think about it. He didn’t spare a moment to follow the train of thoughts and speculations that branched out from one another like forks of lightning. Instead, his mind began filing away details.

The swirl of colors that danced under his feet.

The small wave of exhaustion that followed after the surge of power found its way into his axe.

The hum of his axe in his hands as he brought it down, swinging as hard as he could, envisioning a wave of energy slicing through the air and rushing straight towards his enemy.

Power left him, and the force of that power bursting from the blade of his axe carried him off the ground for a second before he was back down and charging forward.

Something else rose up in Charlie at that moment. Something he’d never felt in his whole life. It was an alien sensation, one that he only recognized because it came from some primal part of his brain.

Thrill.

He was wading into battle for the first time… and he was excited.

Not scared, like he knew he should be.

He was smiling.

And in the back of his mind, the part filing away careful notes for later review, a cold shiver worked its way into there. The shiver was familiar. Not quite as primal as the thrill he felt, but he would recognize it all the same.

Fear.

Fear of the unknown.

Fear that something was not right.

But not a fear of death.


End file.


His blue eyes were lingering on Dainty, despite Alma talking to him.

He was desperately trying to pay attention to what the girl was saying but his mind just would not stay out of his rather pleasurable memories.

“Father has only just returned, and is already speaking of going back.” Alma fretted, looking from her limping Fathers’ departing back to the tall, white haired Garlean also watching Jenomis and Ramza depart deeper into the Prima Vista. When Cid didn’t answer, distracted by his thoughts, Alma’s eyes fell on Dainty, asking her imploringly; “What can we do?”

The Au’ra’s head tipped sideways slightly, giving Alma a narrow eyed “I brought him home alive, what more do you want from me?” look. 

Her blonde hair swayed around her shoulders when she did and Cid was struck by the urge to coil the length of it around one hand, fist it, and pull her in to kiss her deeply. 

To say he was feeling relieved to see her come strolling out of Rabanaste alive was an understatement, still, he gave himself a stern mental shake;

_Time and place, Garlond. Time and bloody place._

Alma was barking up the wrong tree looking to stoic, cold hearted Dainty for comfort and reassurances, leaving it to Cid to answer;

“It will be fine, Alma. If Jenomis feels compelled to venture into Ivalice again you only need apply to Dainty, or myself to fetch him out again.”

“But it’s so dangerous!” Alma fussed, touching a hand to her lips. Her eyes strayed back to the currently blonde Au’Ra who, having located the Imperial Theatre Company costume closet, had disappeared into it with a gleeful cackle. Alma leant towards Cid, dropping her voice to a conspiratorially low level. “I am not sure she could care less about Daddy, or Ramza, which is not surprising he was excessively rude to her.”

Cid was absolutely sure that Dainty couldn’t care less about the Lexantales but she did care about hitting things repeatedly with her axe and there was enough evidence to suggest that she cared about him, in her own inept way, that Cid felt confident replying;

“That may be so Alma, but Dainty has yet to let me down when I ask something of her. She came this time because I asked. She will the next time.”

“You are certain?”

“Yes, Alma.”

“Why?”

_Because I can make her eyes roll back in her head…Dammit, what are you, a horny teenager?! ….Stop that!_

Cid could forgive the girl her child- like questions. She was worried for her Father and Dainty's behavior in no way suggested she would be willing to risk life or limb for Jenomis a second time.

“That is what friends do, and Dainty is a good friend of mine. I have no problem calling in a favor or two if it means Jenomis is delivered back to you safe and sound once more.”

“Then I will accept your word. Thank you, Cid nan Garlond. I must go and attend to Fathers’ wounds now.”

“You know how to contact me if needs be, Alma.”

Cid watched the girl depart, then went in search of Dainty, which proved to be a mistake as the Au’Ra had managed to wiggle into the costume of a demure, submissive Eastern Beauty, twirling her hair up into a bun and affixing it in place with several glass jeweled hair pins. A pretty hair clip that framed her face with silk flowers and ruffles and the bangs that framed her face hid most of her scales but his favorite ones at her throat were tastefully exposed.

Cid’s mind instantly leaped to the amount of times he had had his mouth on those scales, and how she liked to pretend to be submissive when in bed with him and was unsurprised she had aimed for that particular costume in her desire to play “dress-up”

In the Far Eastern dress he thought that she looked very un -Dainty like but incredibly… well… dainty. 

She really was a very pretty Auri.

Cid blamed his recent lack of sleep for the fact that he kept focusing on less that appropriate things, like how Dainty liked it when he manhandled her.

Dainty looked up at him, those purple eyes with their vividly orange limbal rings dominated her delicate, pointed features. Framed in heavy black lashes that looked out of place with the pale colour of her hair she looked very sweet, and innocent and he had to stamp down savagely on some unexpectedly protective, and possessive urges that the costume suddenly provoked.

Fortunately for Cid the effect was utterly ruined mere seconds later when she smirked and informed him;

“I’m keeping this. Call it payment for having to deal with Ramza’s racist ass.”

He gave a light laugh, firmly reminded that that no matter how diminutive she looked, it was still Dainty in there.

“I’m going to return to Rhalgr’s Reach if you need to head that way.” Cid offered. 

Even if the Imperial Theatre Company minded her appropriating the costume, which Cid doubted they would as she had already cut a whole for her tail into it, there was no one on the Prima Vista physically capable of making her give it back.

He knew he certainly wasn't. 

“Sure, let me finish up with the journalist and I’ll meet you by the Bokairo Inn.” Dainty smiled, rarely would she say no to an opportunity to fly on one of Cid’s airships with him. Even if there was no Biggs to take the helm this time so that they could disappear below deck for a couple hours.

Cid felt his eyebrows raise slightly at her choice of meeting place but didn’t question her. She was already slinging her axe on her back and gathering her discarded war leathers to exit the Prima Vista.

The sprawling, exotic city of Kugane quickly swallowed them up.

Dainty’s outfit did not even seem out of place, despite her tail bouncing along behind her as she walked.

A Xaela couple dressed in kimonos not dissimilar from what Dainty wore, giggling together about a private joke, passed by Cid as he watched Dainty disappear into the crowds, eager to attend to her errands and get into the air.

In her current attire Cid would have wagered that even a couple of the other Scions could walk right by her without a second glance.

There was a small dango stand by the inn, and Cid grabbed a couple of them, suddenly recalling he hadn’t eaten since lunch yesterday. When he had told Ramza he could not help rescuing Jenomis because the Omega situation had his full attention it hadn’t been a lie. 

It had so much of his attention he had been forgetting to take care of himself.

Not to mention the customer orders for Garlond Ironworks. With Biggs and Wedge out there were down 2 sets of their most capable hands and he was doing his best to ensure the slack didn’t unfairly fall to the other employees, even bloody Nero.

Things were stressful enough without Jessie getting on their case.

She could yell at him all she liked, Hells, that was what he hired her for, to keep his backside on track but he refused to let anyone have to deal with the strain of extra work when it was his mistake that caused Biggs and Wedge to be injured.

A couple plump, juicy oranges at the stand caught Cid’s attention and made him bite back a smile. He wasn’t sure how Dainty managed to make eating an orange look so damn provocative but it was incredibly entertaining when she did.

 _Seven Hells, you really are having a problem keeping your thoughts out of Dainty’s pants today, aren’t you?_ – he scolded himself.

It didn’t help that the Au’Ra had a track record of inviting herself into his private chambers and the one time he had initiated, by flirting with her, she had responded eagerly.

 _That was different, it’s one thing to make a couple ill-timed jokes to make her laugh_ \- that was his excuse for his behavior in the Sea of Clouds and he was sticking to it – _Its entirely another to ask her to check into an Inn with you for a couple hours like she’s a pleasure house girl. Also you are ridiculously tired and would probably end up accomplishing nothing more than utterly shaming yourself. So. Knock. It. The. Hells. Off._

Now that the adrenaline from Jenomis’ safe return was starting to wear off Cid had to admit he was dead on his feet. He was forgetting to sleep along-side forgetting to eat. After a couple months of such behavior, it was taking an obvious toll.

He probably shouldn’t have even been strolling around Kugane in his impaired state if he was honest. He couldh it the Garlean Embassy with a well thrown rock from here. All it would have taken is the wrong asshole looking to curry favor with Varis to spot him and he could have been Magitek fodder.

The Sekiseigumi may have kept law and order in the port city, and violence was banned with threat of imprisonment or death but that didn’t stop Garlean troops from attempting to waylay the Scions when they had been looking to travel to Othard. 

Cid could have very easily been dead before the Sekiseigumi was even aware a crime had taken place. 

Dainty noticed the deep lines beneath Cid’s eyes, and that his eyelids were heavy, as if he were struggling to keep his eyes open instantly upon her return.

She had not been gone long enough to chalk his state up to boredom while waiting for her and promptly latched hold of his sleeve to drag him into Inn without asking.

“Dainty…” Cid protested, being forcibly dragged inside like an unwilling child. He was reminded once again that no matter how small and delicate looking Dainty was she was strong enough to heft him over her shoulder if she wanted, and probably would shamelessly if he didn’t do as he was told.

“Today is not the day I learn how to crash the Enterprise because you nodded off at the helm.” Dainty told him sharply.

That shut him up quickly. 

Cid admitted that he probably should have considered that. It was a long flight back to Eorzean shores and parts of it could be somewhat tedious. Jessie was already going to have a fit at his taking off to Kugane to “play heroics,” and he would rather be alive to be yelled at for taking too long than the opposite.

Dainty cast him a glance out of the side of her eyes, seeing him almost swaying on his feet before approaching the counter and setting down a heavy coin purse. “Your most quiet and private room please.”

The hostess instantly mistook her for a pleasure house girl attempting to ply her trade on an only half willing, and possibly drunk customer.

“We don’t serve your….”

Red flared in Dainty’s eyes, a whirl of aether around her. The Au’Ra growled, a snarl on her mouth and the hostess paled, managing a weak little;

“Right this way, m..Miss”

The Aether died away instantly, and Dainty returned to smiles, and sweetness;

“Thank you so much.” 

“That was unnecessarily terrifying, you know that, right?” Cid told her once they were installed in a far more luxurious room than he would have ever had the coin to pay for. 

Heavy silks covered the windows, rendering it pleasantly dark. In one corner a small fountain gurgled prettily, creating a sleep inducing atmosphere.

Dainty giggled, looking proud of herself at that before pointing at the low, luxurious looking bed.

“You need sleep. Take it from someone who exhausts herself for no reason other than stubbornness on a regular basis.”

Cid chuckled, he had heard some of the stories from the other Scions of the Seventh Dawn about “Dozey McSmasherson” and her legendarily poor sleeping habits. An incident involving napping in a pile of sheep in the Azim Steppe was frequently told over mugs of ale. Although whether or not she got handsy with the Xaela shepherdess napping with her depending on whether or not Thancred was telling the tale.

“You already paid for the room so I will try but I’m warning you that this may have been a wasted effort.” Cid told her. It was rare that he was able to sleep during daylight hours, even as tired as he was. Other than a quick, 10 minute exhaustion nap here and there, once he was awake his mind would start running and filtering through all the things he needed to do that day and sleeping would be impossible.

The room came with its own private, hot springs fed bath and Dainty elected to make use of it while swearing to herself that she would be good and keep her hands off the man.

 _I swear to Rhalgr, and Halone, and whatever they worship in Yanxia, I will be good. Cid Garlond is exceptionally busy, and I will be satisfied with nothing more than knowing he had slept a little._ – Dainty told herself firmly, stretching in the hot water and trying to get that 1 kink out of her tail that always seemed to be there, no matter what she did.

The hot water was delicious on her battle weary muscles but it didn’t take Dainty long to get bored and decide that sharpening her axe, or repairing her war leathers sounded more entertaining than languishing in the bath.

She was gratified to see that Cid had put himself to bed diligently when she returned to the bedroom portion of the accommodations, clad only in her small clothes, her wet hair loose, and unbound to dry. 

His clothing neatly folded over a chair, his chain and aviators goggles resting on top.

 _That means he's naked in that bed_ \- a naughty little voice whispered in her ear but she smothered it brutally.

He really did need to get some sleep.

When Dainty drew close to check on him, however, his pale blue eyes quickly opened, proving that sleep was eluding him as predicted.

Wordlessly, as it was not her nature to be verbose Dainty sat one hip, leaning over and cupping Cid’s bearded face with both hands before kissing him gently so that he would close his eyes again.

Cid briefly thought that getting him hot and bothered was hardly going to be conducive to sleeping but it was a very quick kiss, her mouth pressed only fleetingly to his.

Her thumbs stroked gently across his cheek bones, then across his closed eyelids. One ran up the bridge of his nose before starting a slow circular motion around the Garlean eye his forehead, getting larger and larger until her fingers were running over the pressure points at his temples and slipping into his hair to massage his scalp.

Cid inhaled and exhaled deeply, relaxing into her touch and Dainty smirked to herself.

She was well aware that she was very good at that.

Her fingers were strong, and agile from years of gripping her axe and her arms did not get fatigued easily, meaning she could keep up a pleasant, constant pressure for longer than most. Her instinctual understanding of anatomy, most often utilized for knowing where to place her blade to ensure a kill shot on a monster, also meant she was well aware of the best pressure points to rub, and which places would need a more gentle touch.

She alternated massaging his scalp, temples and just stroking her hands through his long, silver white hair.

It didn’t take long before Cid Garlond was deeply, unequivocally, asleep. Dainty could tell because he was snoring, ever so slightly from laying on his back.

There were many things she was terrible at, like empathy, so she took a lot of pride in the things she was good at.  
All 4 of them.

 _It wouldn’t be bad to get in bed with him, right, Rhalgr?_ – Dainty bit her lip, still swearing she would be good. 

The siren song of a comfortable bed and Cid Garlond snuggles was very hard to resist for an Auri who spent most of her time sleeping alone in whatever accommodations the Scions could scrounge together.

She had slept on a table in the House of the Fierce once for lack of any other options. Gosetsu had rested his sake glass on her head.

And unlike Cid Dainty could fall asleep within a few moments of achieving a comfortable position, sometimes whether she intended to or not.

She slid off the bed to disrobe quickly, taking care not to jostle Cid awake when she climbed under the bedding with him and settling in herself on her stomach as her tail was still bothering her. 

True to her word she stayed chastely on the other side of the bed.

Her head hit the pillow and she was out.

 

 

Cid woke up so hard it was almost painful. 

The dark room made it hard to judge how long he had been asleep as he slowly opened his blue eyes. But at some point he’d rolled over, put an arm around Dainty in his sleep and pulled her body against his.

This had led to her unrestrained tail rubbing up against him in some… interesting…. ways.

He gently shuffled around to put his back to Dainty so as not to disturb her.

The Auri instantly rolled against him, throwing an arm around his ribs to spoon him. She snuffled her face into his neck sleepily before her body relaxed again.

 _Well, that's not helpful._ \- Cid couldn't help but be amused, her soft breath on the back of his neck was entirely too intimate to get his raging erection under control.

He was palpably aware of her breasts against his muscular back. It was truly remarkable just how much sensation the skin there had, now that there was Dainty's pert breasts pressed against it.

The hand at his ribs raised lazily, slipping from beneath the blankets and gently smoothing the silver white strands of hair from the back of his neck, proving she was only feigning still being asleep.

“How long did I sleep?” Cid asked curiously, still unable to hazard a guess from the context.

“About four hours.”

“Seven Hells! I guess I really did need that.”

Dainty laughed, her ticklish breath on the back of his neck sending a rather delicious shiver down his spine that she instantly noticed.

Dainty pressed a kiss to the sensitive skin murmuring;

“I was going to be so good.”

She really had intended to stay on her side of the bed, but then he had wrapped a sleep lazy arm around her and hauled her against him and Dainty had quickly given up any assertions of innocent intentions. 

“Oh, were you?" Cid chuckled at the amorous Au'Ra. They were alone, in bed, with no audience.  
He really should have known it would only be a matter of time before she got a bit handsy.

“I promised to 3 different deities I wouldn't do this." She dragged her lips down the back of his neck insistently. 

He shivered again, this time all the way down to his toes.  
She was as adept at finding all his erogenous zones as he was at finding hers.

The small, scaled hand moved to drag fingertips down the corrugated side of his muscular torso before straying lower over his hip and he sucked in a breathe reflexively. Her fingers traced the cut of his muscles as her tongue darted out to taste his skin. 

_Gods but that man is a problem to me_ – Dainty thought wantonly. She was supposed to be cold, and reserved. Withdrawn behind eyes of steel. But his smiles disarmed her, his laughter blowing right through her carefully cultivated iciness like a hot knife through thrice-churned butter. 

“You should tell me to stop.” Dainty whispered against his skin.

“Like Hells I will.” Cid retorted instantly while he still had the capacity for speech.

Dainty shuffled down slightly to compensate for their height differences, her head disappearing under the blankets.

Cid sucked in a breath as her hand curled around his hard length and started to stroke him rhythmically.

If she was volunteering to take care of that, he certainly wasn't going to complain. Dainty pressed her body against his, enjoying the heat and sensation of skin against skin.

Dainty dragged her tongue up Cid’s spine as her hand squeezed and pumped his length.

 _Like velvet covered iron…. Hehehe.…Ironworks…._ Dainty thought to herself, smiling at her own joke.

The slight nutty, salty taste of skin and undeniably heady scent of male always excited her and made her want more.

Her head moved further under the blankets, hands tugging at his hip to encourage him to adjust his position onto his back so that she could wrap her mouth around the tip of his cock, tongue darting out to taste the salty pre-cum.

“F***! Dainty!” Cid groaned, head arching back into the pillows. 

It wasn’t generally his nature to be vulgar above “bastard” or “bloody hells” but she was entirely too good at that. Dainty giggled from beneath the blankets, replacing her mouth with her hand momentarily and stroking him before swirling her mouth across his head again.

Her tongue dragged slowly back and forth around the head of his dick.

All at once her mouth engulfed his length. More and more of his thick length disappeared between her lips, tongue massaging the underside of his cock as it did.

Cid fisted handfuls of her hair, forgetting to be gentle in mindless pleasure.

Dainty didn't mind. She took hits from dragons and walked away.

It was all just glorious stimulation to her and she had ever been an sensation addict.

She was dragging her tongue up his length, and scratching her nails across his hips and down his thighs. 

Her mouth worked the tip of his shaft, one hand curling around the base as she sucked him off avidly.

The other hand remained in almost constant motion as her mouth worked, alternating between dragging down his hip, across his thighs, tugging on his balls.

All the while her tongue flicked back and forth across the underside of his cock and her other hand stroked and pumped him smoothly.

“Dainty...” he groaned thickly, proud of himself for managing to remember his own name at that moment in time, let alone hers. 

Her tongue stroked up his length before she engulfed the tip in her hot mouth, her hand working through the wetness left behind.

A spasm ran through his entire body, stomach muscles clenching into tight knots as his peak rapidly approached.

She sucked on his cock, bobbing and laving. She lifted her mouth to pause for breath and the sudden sensation change of hot to cool was too much for Cid.

Without warning he came hard, grunting, and accidentally shooting his load across her face.

His orgasm left him breathing hard, unable to form words but utterly aghast at seeing his cum on Dainty’s pretty, pointed features. She looked stunned, and slightly confused for half a second before she burst into laughter. 

“Hee hee hee! Well, my hair was clean.” Dainty laughed, wiping her face with her hands.

“Dainty, I am so sorry.” Cid was appalled with himself. He would normally never so something so degrading to a woman but it had honestly taken him by complete surprise.

“The last time I had something sticky on my face it was Monster guts. I’ll take this over guts gladly.” Dainty giggled, wiggling off the bed without touching anything, adding. “I am also taking this as a compliment. I knew I was good, didn’t think I was quite that good!”

She was terrible at many things, like dodging apparently. Not surprising given she was a Warrior and her main fighting style was to take blows so that others could duck out of their way. She took pride in the things she was good at. 

She washed her face quickly before taking advantage of the creature comforts afforded to them by the expensive, luxurious room. There was a small side bar, stocked with fruit, juice and sake and when she returned to the bed she was carrying two glasses and a handful of grapes. 

Cid was couldn't help but watch her as she moved around the room. 

Despite having seen her naked plenty of times he was still mesmerized by the way her opalescent scales picked up even the faintest light. She also had the distinction of being the only Au’Ra he had ever seen naked and, despite being finely built, he was of the opinion that she was perfectly formed.

The scales at her sternum shimmered slightly, drawing his eye there, then down to her pert breasts and pleasantly pink nipples.

Dainty joined him on the bed again, straddling him, her slender weight across his hips so that the round of her backside rested teasingly against his orgasm sensitive cock.

Her tail draped over his legs, relaxed. 

She read the surprise in his features as she drank a little juice and popped a grape in her mouth from her perch atop him.

“We’re not leaving this bed today, are we?” Cid asked, then hastened to add. “Not a complaint.” 

“Jessie’s already going to scream bloody murder at you. May as well make it really, really worth it.” Dainty smirked, “Besides, she’s the one that decided to pay Nuisance tol Stupid an exorbitant amount. She can have fun making him work for it while you and I play.” 

It was hard to argue with her logic, or care about the consequences when Dainty was straddling his lap her blonde curls dancing around her shoulders and pert breasts tantalizingly at eye level as he sat up a little.

Cid’s eyes traced the lines of her body, and scales. He raised his hands, sliding them down her slender rib cage and the tiny waist below it. They moved to her hips, encountering the large scale clusters on her sides with his palms.

He brushed a fingertip along the filigree of scales at her side and prompted a burst of ticklish laughter from Dainty. He couldn’t decide what he liked more when she giggled. The way her eyes narrowed or the way her breasts jiggled. 

She squirmed as his fingertips brushed across her lower back, just above her tail, inadvertently rubbing her backside against his cock, which lazily swelled at the attention.

Heat rose in her cheeks, and painted her breasts and shoulders with blushes. Those purple and orange eyes, hazy with arousal as his hands played on her skin. They were framed with heavy dark lashes that seemed out of place with her pale hair. 

He raised a hand to her curls, twisting one lock around a finger and tugging to watch it spring back into place. Cid ran his hands through the length of it carefully, letting it curl and twist around his fingers.

“Tangle it and I’ll make you brush it for me.” Dainty threatened playfully.

Cid laughed because that sounded wonderful and not the least bit like a chore to him. Gathering up the length of her hair and twisted in around one fist before using it to pull her into a long, lingering kiss.

Dainty shifted her hips back, leaning to the kiss. 

He was already halfway hard from her earlier squirming and now his thick cock slid eagerly between her cheeks, swelling further still at the stimulation. 

She reached behind herself to stroke his length, teasing him. Providing pleasurable stimulation but not enough to actually fully satisfy.

 _Two can play at that game_ \- Cid figured, reaching for the mischievous Auri. She ended up wrestled from her perch and planted, flat, on her back on the mattress with a smirking Garlean on top of her.

Dainty's brilliant, bold smirk and victorious expression proved nothing more than that that had been her intention all along. To provoke him into playing rough with her.

She was in an unusually indolent mood, normally she was prone to rushing where as he preferred to linger in the heavy petting stage. She has said “… while you and I play.” and Cid was more than happy to take advantage of her indulgent pace.

He drew his mouth down her neck, and across the scales at her throat, prompting a giggle from Dainty.

Vaguely, somewhere in the back of his mind that never turned off, he wondered if all Au' Ra were ticklish near their scales or if it was just Dainty. Or perhaps she just really, really like the way he touched her. Cid knew what she would say if he asked her. Her answer would be entirely flattering, even if he didn’t fully believe it.

He bit her neck, knowing she preferred it a little harder than would be expected from the look of her.

“Oh!” Dainty gasped. Cid’s tongue massaging her elevated pulse. “Oh Gods…”

“No Gods, just me.” Cid teased against her skin, mouth continuing down. His mouth moved expertly from collarbones to sternum and then between her exposed breasts. Dainty trembled, core beginning to throb at his ministrations, his lips and tongue worshiping her peaked, hard nipples until they were sensitive nubs of arousal.

She could feel her pulse in her fingertips, surrendering entirely to the expert touches and kisses that progressed down her body.

His thumbs circled her hips bones, her legs parting eagerly as he moved backwards to more comfortable settle between them.

Teasing little kisses were pressed to her inner thighs, the wiry hair of his beard tickling the soft, sensitive skin there, and quickening her breath in anticipation before all in a rush his mouth engulfed her pussy.

Dainty almost jolted off the bed at the sudden, glorious rush of sensation but his hands at her hips pushed her into the mattress.

She tasted sweet and he sucked on her greedily, slipping his tongue between her folds and inside her slightly.

Her body felt like it belonged to someone else.

Toes curling and heart pounding, it twitched and flailed and arched with little input from her.

Dainty kept forgetting to breathe as Cid stroked her clit with his thumb.

“Ci-iiid..” Dainty squirmed, fisting his white hair and arching.

He loved it when she said his name like that. Like a plea. Drawing out the i-sound with a gasp and only just barely managing to have enough breath for the hard d.

When she managed to turn his name into two syllables as she moaned and pleasure jolted her unexpectedly was also a favorite.

Whilst ever she was going to keep giving him the opportunity Cid was to keep trying to make Dainty beg. Sooner or later, the pleasure would out weight her pride and he’d get a chorus of mindless “please… please…” out of her.

Cid slipped his tongue from within her, replacing it with one long finger.

Dainty cursed, her hips raising off the bed slightly of their own accord. Cid slid a second finger inside her tight cunt and the passage gripped his fingers eagerly, not wanting to let go. He applied his mouth to her sensitive little nub, repeating the earlier movement of his thumb with his tongue.

Dainty’s head tossed, tangling her hair as she arched. There was lightning in her spine and it kept sparking down her limbs and making her jolt.

With one great spasm that tensed her entire body Dainty hit peak, orgasming around Cid’s fingers.

She was shaking slight when he lifted his head from between her thighs, kissing her stomach and then each hipbone in turn, letting her bask in the post orgasmic glow.

Dainty struggled to regain her breath before languidly opened her eyes to smirk at him. Her arms raised to grip the headboard so that her body was stretched and displayed, the pearl scales picking up the candle light and making her pale skin glow.

It was an obvious invitation;

“Do you want you want with me.”

It was fortunately well established by now that what Dainty wanted and what Cid wanted to do with her was the exact same thing although he couldn't help but enjoy the view, resting on his knees.

If he hadn't already been hard the expression in her normally cold eyes, and the stunning blushes painting her body would have been more than enough to get him there.

“What do you want, Dainty?” Cid asked, solely for the pleasure of hearing her say it.

“I want you, Cid.” 

“Glad t’oblige you.” 

Cid moved to sit back on his heels and lifting her hips up to take the pressure off her tail and pull her onto him, The tip of his hard cock touched her outer folds and her wet heat exploded around his tip.

Dainty was fantastically wet, he slid in so easily he almost dropped her at the sudden pleasure overload.

"Oh!" Dainty gasped, biting her lip as her cunt grasped Cid’s length. 

She kicked her legs over his arms, trying to get her hips at that breath-stealing angle he had put them in that first time on the Enterprise and earning a deep growl from Cid when she achieved it. He gripped her hips hard, bottoming out inside her and earning a desperate, pleasured noise from Dainty.

Dainty couldn't move herself with only her shoulders contacting with the bed but it was very little effort for the muscular pure blooded Garlean to manipulate her body. She was so light, and so deliciously unresistant.

She gripped the headboard so hard her knuckles turned white when he began to move, pulling her onto him as he thrust forwards. Over and over, a precise, calculated rhythm that he knew would turn her hands to claws and curl her toes.

Cid was an Engineer. It had not taken him very long, since that first time on the Enterprise, to figure out exactly how to get Dainty’s motor ticking at the perfect tempo.

She grasped two hand fulls of her hair, rocking her hips against his strokes and moaning wantonly;

“Ooooh....... Cid!”

A sharp inhaled breath followed, then a moan that caught in her throat. Her head tossed from side to side, eyes clenched close and neck elongating as she arched and held her breath, tightening every muscle in her body. 

It was terrible that he could completely undo her like this. 

His kisses made her head spin and the way he fucked her, she didn't think she could ever get enough of it. Tender even though he didn't have to be but strong and confident enough that the levels of sensation overwhelmed her.

Cid firmly pumped her full of his rock-hard cock a few more times, and she let out the breath she had been holding in one long gasp.

Her whole body was wracked with small convulsions, his next thrust made her eyes lose focus, staring at some point in the distance. Her whole face was a picture of tortured ecstasy. 

His head fell back of its own accord. Cid could feel himself almost snarling as he pumped in and out of her, harder, faster. There was no need to be careful with Dainty, no need to maintain any degree of restraint or control.

He literally could not hurt her. Few things on the planet could.

He could fuck her hard enough to make the bed dent the wall, letting his mind empty of everything but glorious sensation. 

Dainty's voice came out as a low, desperate keening noise, chest heaving as she struggled to breathe.

“Just… a little….more..... Oh Gods….Cid….!” she shuddered violently, half mewling his name as she did. 

Cid feeling every inch of her inner muscles squeezing around his thick shaft. He was breathing heavily, grunting from the exertion 

Dainty spasmed, twitching so violently she almost broke his grip. On instinct alone Cid gripped her body hard enough to leave fingertip indents in her skin, pulling her hard onto as he came with a growl, her own release a half second behind.

Dainty relaxed out of the severe arch that had lifted her shoulders off the bed. She dropped her hands to the set locked around her hips, holding them as the aftershocks made her twitch every few moments.

Slowly the ability to control themselves returned, Cid setting Dainty back to the bed before stretching out beside her. She was a snuggler and he was going to take advantage of that, wrapping her up in his arms.

Dainty made a soft noise and curled into him, pressing their sweat slicked bodies together and going completely limp, and pliant in the post orgasmic after glow.

Cid half felt like he needed another nap after that effort. The thought occurred, there was really nothing to stop him from drifting off again. 

To someone who usually slept alone, in whatever accommodations Garlond Ironworks were given snuggling up with Dainty was a siren song that Cid couldn't resist.

 

Dainty wriggled out from under the blankets, sitting on the edge of the bed and stretching gloriously. She wasn't sure how long they had been cuddled up together but she made a rough guess that it was approaching later afternoon given how hungry she suddenly was.

There was the small matter of the state of her hair before she stepped outside, however.

“Well... I need another bath.” she announced, standing and casting an affectionately amused look over her shoulder at the Garlean on the bed. “Feel free to join me.”

She sauntered out of the room leaving Cid to lazily doze for several moments. He thought he must have drifted off again for before giving himself a shake, and rising to follow the Au’Ra into the bathroom.

Dainty smiled in welcome as the frosted glass panel, decorated with cherry blossoms and vines, slid open to admit Cid. He stepped into the hot water, taking great pains not to splash her inadvertently.

Dainty grinned, and took no such care, splashing him directly in the face when he sat down and cackling;

“Vengeance!”

Cid faux glared at her, and splashed her right back.

War erupted almost instantly, flinging water at each other like a pair of over grown children, and laughing the entire time. Cid couldn’t remember the last time he had laughed as much as spending an hour getting clean with Dainty. 

Especially when it occurred after getting real dirty with Dainty.

Dainty scrubbed his back, he washed her scales, curling one large hand around the base of her tail to get soap down its length with a gentle tug.

Dainty sighed, tipping her hips back reflexively. Curious, and not quite sure if that was a noise of pleasure, or pain Cid repeated the motion, this time more firmly and getting a loud pop that he recognized.

His elbows did something similar.

Cid ran his hands down the entire length of her tail, thumbs digging in slightly and earning a couple more pops as he went.

Dainty groaned in relief, going slightly weak at the knees.

“Gods, that's been bothering me for a month.” 

Cid mentally filed “cracking an Au'Ra's tail.” under list of skills learned while fucking Dainty.

Dainty exited first, wanting to dry her hair, leaving Cid to enjoy the blissfully hot water until he was certain they would charge her extra for how much time they had spent in the room.

So worth it – He wallowed in the water indulgently.

Dainty was done getting ready herself by the time he emerged, a towel slung around his hips, another around his shoulders. Her eyes drank in the image, taking in every detail of his muscular body, dripped with water.  
That was a memory that was going to get her through some cold, lonely nights.

“Dinner?” Dainty suggested, proving just how late in the day it had become.

“Aye. On the way to the airship landing though. Lest some entrepreneur thinks the Excelsior abandoned by now and attempts to sell it at the Kogane Dori markets.” Cid quipped, dressing quickly as Dainty laughed.

“It will only be Hancock if someone does and Tataru would have his head in half an ilm.”


End file.


> hey this is a very shameless fic on my part and I don't write smut very often, so hopefully it's passable. 
> 
> we're in stormblood and I'm still tormenting Aymeric, I won't ever leave him alone in case you're curious

Aymeric stared closely at the man before him, the way his warped crimson armor shined in the light of the moon above forcing his eyes to remain focused on him, and only him. The soft white light danced almost too beautifully across the plating, but still eluded his face to shadow. Until tonight, the lord commander was unknowing dragon’s blood could even appear to be so beautiful when it covered metal. 

There was an odd attraction to it, but not one he would voice.

Not to the one before him, at least; not now.

Soon feeling akin to a cornered lamb with the odd silence that drew throughout the room, Aymeric spoke, keeping his voice biting and sharp. The bark of a commander. “Why have you come here?” 

A simple question, and Estinien - _no, Nidhogg_ \- chuckled, stepping away from the window he had entered through. It was alarming enough that the wyrm knew exactly which one in Aymeric’s chambers was unlocked, and moreso that he arrived at the time of night Estinien would normally greet him by. Too familiar, yet too strange; it was unnerving, and he was certain it showed by the way his skin prickled with goosebumps.

A low rumble of a voice followed, nearly a growling laugh as Estinien replied. “To see _you._ Was that not obvious?” 

The response caught Aymeric off guard, and his brow knitted. “...For what purpose?”

Estinien - _Nidhogg,_ he need remind himself - drew closer, and Aymeric took two steps back, followed by three. Soon, he found his back to a wall, his hand fumbling for purchase against the nightstand beside his bed. Naegling was on the other end of the room, and his eyes immediately flicked to the blue blade resting against the wall beside the door. If he was just fast enough, perhaps he could- 

“Calm yourself. I am not here to do unto you harm.” Riddled with doubt, Aymeric met the wyrm’s gaze again, and he found himself staring up at the puppeted man before him. Estinien was still taller than him, of course, and while previously they quipped jokes about it… now, it served only to make him menacing as he loomed over the raven-haired elezen.

Aymeric swallowed hard, frozen in place as Estinien’s helmed head lowered closer to him, until he could nearly feel the other man’s breath against his cheek. Part of him dared not breathe. A cold chill washed through his veins, fingers curling tight against the aged wood of the nightstand. He wasn’t pinned down by the wyrm in any form, but Fury he felt as if he even thought of moving, he’d be torn in half.

“Why is it his thoughts are so clouded by you? ‘Tis only you that I see within his mind as he lies dormant.” Aymeric flinched. A chilled gauntlet was now at rest on his cheek, feeling like an icecube on his warmed skin. “What are you to him?”

The way Estinien’s body pressed close to his own was enough to make Aymeric squirm with a quiet noise of disapproval. This wasn’t his lover. It was his body, but it wasn’t him, and he needed to keep that in mind.

Yet no matter how hard he tried, Aymeric still flushed when he felt Estinien’s lips touch his ear in a soft, hesitant kiss, almost as if testing the waters.

“Such a matter should not concern you, wyrm.” Aymeric growled, trying his best to sound strong even through the uncomfortable closeness they now shared. Estinien was so close he could feel the chill radiating off his armor, touching his clothed body and making him shiver. 

A hum was all he was given in response. A hum as Estinien pulled his head back and that gauntlet left Aymeric’s cheek in favor of pulling his helm from his head. Soft white hair cascaded from the weathered crimson protectant, and the lord commander couldn’t help but take a moment to admire him.

Estinien’s hair was still disheveled as it framed his face, bringing forth his tired steel eyes that were now a burning red. A color that matched the jagged lines that ran along his cheeks, down his neck and yet further, Aymeric could only imagine. He was beautiful, even still, and a pang of guilt shook the raven’s heart at even thinking him to be such in the state he was in. 

Guilt made Aymeric’s head turn to look away, his once fearful expression being replaced by something pained. When the crimson gauntlet grabbed his chin and forced his head back around, he closed his eyes so he wouldn’t need to stare at that smirk. The one Estinien always wore.

“Look at me.” 

Aymeric ignored the wyrm’s request, deeming him to hold no power over him, even if he used Estinien’s voice. 

Or, so he thought. 

“Look at me, Blue.”

Aymeric’s breath hitched. Of course he would know that nickname. If he had searched Estinien’s thoughts and memories, he’d know everything about the lord commander. Including their quiet nicknames of adoration for one another.

Slowly, his eyes of sharp frozen blue opened to greet the other man, albeit only halfway. It hurt to even look at him. Aymeric wanted nothing more than to embrace him, to hold him like he used to when he’d come to visit after a long time away… but he knew he couldn’t. Knew he _wouldn’t._

That was when Estinien leaned forward, proving him wrong once more as the puppeted dragoon coiled his arms around Aymeric and pulled him against his body. A soft gasp left the raven, his breathing increasing to a near ragged level as he fought his emotions - fought the fear, the sorrow, the need for the other man. His fingers twitched, and his arms slowly rose halfway, but froze before they could cling to the other.

Aymeric waited a long while, wanting to see if perhaps Estinien would cease resting his head against his shoulder and holding him so tightly that his armor was pressing red indents into his skin through cloth. He wanted to see if perhaps this was just a ruse. If he was going to find a knife plunged into his back after a moment’s time.

...But nothing came. 

It was just a hug, and with a quiet, defeated whimper, Aymeric finally broke.

Raising his arms, he hugged Estinien back, clung tight to him like this actually _was_ him. It wasn’t Nidhogg. The dragoon was fine and in his arms, cradling each other like they had many times in the past. Gods, it hurt his heart, and Aymeric exhaled a shaking breath as he pressed his face to the other man’s neck. 

“Estinien…” Aymeric breathed, the hand trailing through his dark curls managing to earn a pleased sigh. His own voice was quiet, hesitant as he spoke. “Do you feel this, dear heart?”

Again, no answer came. 

As Aymeric reluctantly pulled his head back, he looked into the deep crimson eyes that stared back. He rose a hand to lightly trail the pads of his fingers along the red lines that stained his dragoon’s cheeks. Watched as the other man didn’t move away or even flinch, and it confirmed to him that at least they didn’t cause him pain. 

For once during this night, Aymeric gave a small smile.

“I miss you.” The lord commander spoke again, at war with his own heart as to what he should do. He knew what he wanted, but… would it be right to take it, with Estinien in this state? “I still love you.”

Aymeric’s inner question was answered when Estinien suddenly shifted, his crimson eyes falling shut as their lips gently met. It caused a great deal of surprise for the lord commander, but he didn’t allow himself to hesitate as he pressed back against him. Deepened the kiss, parting his lips in offering as the dragoon’s gauntlet tangled in his dark curls once more, Aymeric gave himself over. 

It was a kiss that was moreso desperate than it was loving. A play of tongues as Estinien kissed him deeper than he could ever remember him doing, the lord commander’s hands struggling to find purchase on his crimson armor just to keep himself grounded. He needed this. He needed this so badly, and so he took, allowing the other man to kiss and bite at his lips and do whatever else he pleased.

It was telling enough how much he enjoyed this by the small sounds of approval that rumbled Aymeric’s throat, a soft gasp leaving him at a particularly hard bite to his lower lip. 

Estinien was admiring him as he pulled back, Aymeric could easily tell. The dragoon’s lips were curled into a smile, taking in the sight of the needing commander in his arms, of the way his lips were bruised and his cold eyes were alight with warmth. Not that Estinien looked much different, of course, and for that Aymeric was somewhat glad.

“What do you wish for, dear one?” Aymeric asked, his eyes searching the cold crimson ones that seemed to stare into his very soul. It was exciting, somehow. He felt his body heating, responding eagerly to the way the dragoon only _stared,_ speaking not a word. “You needn’t ask. Just… take.”

There was a pause after those words. An eerie silence as Estinien’s brow rose and he seemed to draw into contemplation. For a moment, Aymeric feared he was about to reject him - that Nidhogg was simply toying with him and this was all a massive ruse to get him to lower his guard into vulnerability.

Yet when he was guided to the bed and gently laid against the mattress, Aymeric knew otherwise. 

Estinien climbed atop him, and once again their lips met. Aymeric responded eagerly, but kept himself still as a cold hand trailed from his cheek to his neck. It swept across his body, touching him through cloth and leaving him burning with a nervous excitement. 

Could Estinien even _remove_ his armors? Was it possible, with the way Nidhogg’s eyes were melded to them? Aymeric had many questions, but they only emerged in the form of gasps of delight as those lips touched his neck and bit hard enough to mark.

Whispers of his lover’s name tumbled over his reddened lips as Estinien’s hand worked under his shirt. The dragoon was oddly thorough, trailing the tips of his gloved fingers over each dip in muscle, over every scar he could remember, and when they finally pushed Aymeric’s shirt up enough to meet the hardening buds on his chest, the lord commander gave a quiet moan. He toyed with them, flicking and pinching as he licked a thin trail up the lord commander’s neck, leaving him squirming and groaning below him.

Gods, Aymeric’s body felt like it was nearly alight with flame. His breathing was uneven, trying so hard to remain stable as the dragoon touched and explored him. It was impossible for him to remain calm. His pants were soon undone and pulled to his knees, his underclothes along with them, and his erection sprung forth as it was freed.

The lord commander was bare and vulnerable to the dragoon’s eyes, his fingers curling tight into the bedsheets below. Estinien was examining him, drawing far enough away to rake his crimson eyes over the shivering body below him. It was exciting, in its own right; Aymeric was akin to a pinned prey, and he knew it. 

Knew it, and accepted it.

Accepted _this,_ and didn’t hesitate to show his approval with a moan as a heated gauntlet wrapped around his erect length and began a slow pump.

“Estinien… by the Fury, I…!” Aymeric didn’t have words, and the only ones he had came out choked, stopped by a shuddering gasp. His mind was a deep haze of halted thoughts and willing acceptance, words becoming only a babble as he tried to force them. Outright desire fueled his body, and his hips fell prey as they began to buck against Estinien’s hand.

The lord commander’s mind was shutting down, his body surrendering to the pleasure of his lover as he rewarded him with moans and gasps of delight. 

It spurred the dragoon onwards, and the moment Aymeric gave a particularly loud moan was when Estinien groaned in return, pulling his free hand down to unhitch the armor from his hips. 

“Aymeric…” 

The raven looked at Estinien then, his pleasure-hazed eyes nearly wide. Had he heard that right? Had Estinien spoken his name? His heart was blooming with love, with sheer hope that maybe, perhaps this was all the dragoon’s doing, and that Nidhogg had no control over him here. 

It made Aymeric smile so wide, chuckling as Estinien moved over him once the armor was gone from his hips and his pants pulled down. He stared up at those half-lidded eyes, committing to memory the sight of the dragoon flushed and panting as he loomed over him on his hands and knees. It was beautiful, and finally Aymeric moved a hand from the sheets to cup his lover’s cheek.

“Have me, my dearest dragoon.” Aymeric whispered, motioning his head towards the drawer of the nightstand. Estinien followed with his eyes, and didn’t hesitate to shift and fumble through it in search of the oil. 

It was the final bout of acceptance he needed to show, and when Aymeric parted his legs fully to allow Estinien further access, the dragoon didn’t hesitate to take it.

The lord commander wanted to ask his lover if it would be possible to remove his gloves, but before he could, a finger was already within him. Aymeric gasped at the sudden intrusion without warning, but it was one he was used to. Estinien rarely gave warnings, unless he was feeling particularly lazy and slow during their lovemaking.

The dragoon did, however, lean down to kiss him as he prepared him. It helped Aymeric stay settled through the initial pain of him being stretched and prepared, a heavy huff of breath leaving him as a second would enter. He’d be prepared as the other man saw fit, back arching up to meet him with a muffled moan of his lover’s name when Estinien would curl his fingers and touch the bundle of nerves that would make him see stars. 

It was hard to hold on. Aymeric was already so erect and needing, he felt the tide getting ready to crash down. He sought to warn him, reaching to paw at his armor to try to pry Estinien away, but to little avail. The dragoon was practically glued to him, working his fingers in him in a steady thrust as he kissed him hard with teeth and tongue. 

Aymeric whimpered, his length twitching as he shook and tried so desperately to get Estinien to pull away.

It was pointless.

Another curl of his finger lead to a hard press against that spot within Aymeric, and it sent the lord commander over the edge. Estinien pulled his head back at that moment, watching the elezen below him writhe and howl in pleasure, and to add to it, he curled his gauntlet around his erection and pumped in time with his fingers. Nothing but babbles came from the raven’s mouth, his mind and body so pleasured he couldn’t even _think._

The dragoon drew his orgasm out for as long as he was able, and when Aymeric was finished spending himself on his torso, he slumped against the bed. With frozen eyes softly shut, he turned his head to the side, mumbling an incoherent phrase of adoration as warm lips assaulted his damp neck with kisses and licks. A wave of relaxation took him, but he knew Estinien wasn’t done with him yet.

Aymeric allowed the other elezen to grab his legs, hitching them up over Estinien’s shoulders when prompted, and he gave a delighted groan when his lover finally began to press into him. 

It felt just as he remembered. Estinien was unchanged down there as well, it seemed - thankful as he was for it. He was still his lover. Still his dragoon, and he rocked his hips against him as best he could when he began to piston into his entrance.

“Estinien… ah, dear heart…” Aymeric cooed, his voice a breathy whisper as he felt himself coming alive again. 

The lord commander’s arousal was near constant under the assault he was weathering. His arms were nearly boneless as he tried to lift them, tried to touch whatever parts of Estinien he could reach. From the cool surfaces of his stained armors to the softness of his cheeks, he gently caressed him as the dragoon had his way.

As he made him his again, after so long of being apart.

_“Mine.”_ The low growl of claim from Estinien was met with a shift in pace from his hips, pistoning harder into the lord commander below him. _“You are mine, Aymeric.”_

Aymeric sighed happily in response. A simple reply of acceptance, of “yours”, was enough to make Estinien give a low moan of his own, the blunt fingers of his gloves pushing red indents into Aymeric’s thighs. The raven was alive again. Erect and needing, and the heavy pace his lover had set was once more pushing him closer to the edge.

A grunt from Estinien and the twitching of his length within him was enough to tell Aymeric his dragoon was close.

Before Estinien tumbled, however, he grabbed hold of Aymeric’s length, eliciting a rather undignified whine from the lord commander’s throat. He wanted him to go first. Wanted him to fall again, in the throes of pleasure and passion. 

“Esti… Estinien… please…”

Aymeric obeyed.

“Estinien… I… I’m-!”

He gave Estinien what he wanted, and soon enough, he broke with a cry of his lover’s name.

Aymeric broke, and Estinien followed with a sharp snap of his hips. Losing himself inside the lord commander, marking and claiming him once more as he did so long ago. The raven only barely registered that Estinien was growling for him, whispering his name repeatedly as he thrusted heavily - erratically - into him as he released himself.

If Aymeric wasn’t tired before, he certainly was now. 

With blue eyes softly shut, his legs slipped from the dragoon’s shoulders as his body became boneless against the bed. It was hard to catch his breath, basking in the haze of afterglow that followed their coupling, and only the soft touch of Estinien’s lips against his own brought him back. Grounded him, and made him open his eyes halfway.

There was love in Estinien’s eyes. Warmth. It replaced the cold chill of his eyes prior, when they’d first began to speak.

“I see now.” Estinien spoke, in a voice all too familiar, but one not quite his own. Aymeric’s smile faltered into a slow frown. “Ah… I see now, why he thinks of you.”

The dark haired elezen turned his head to the side and shut his eyes. His heart felt confused. Broken, nearly.

It was Nidhogg all along.

Nidhogg, fooling him and taking the voice and appearance of his lover. Of course - Aymeric took a shuddering breath, as he bit back tears - of course… it never really was Estinien, was it? While he had given himself to his body, it was just that. What a fool he was to believe otherwise.

Aymeric said nothing, keeping his eyes shut, hoping the wyrm would simply believe him to have fallen asleep. He was vaguely aware of a softness wiping him down, cleaning his body, followed by the clank of armor as Estinien righted himself. They were both quiet, unspeaking until a soft blanket was pulled over Aymeric’s body.

“I will free him from your hold, wyrm.” The lord commander’s words were weak, so quiet he was unsure the other even heard them. “Even if it is my last act. I swear it.”

Those words were met only with a huff of a chuckle.

When Aymeric next opened his eyes, Estinien was gone, the soft fluttering of the curtains from the open window being the only indication he had left.

**Author's Note:**

> Well.
> 
> I guess Nidhogg understands now.


End file.

“You are Garlean?” 

Zenos watched the warrior’s eyes widen. She reached up instinctively, shaking fingers searching her forehead, and her face turned pale when she realized the absence of her headband. Without it, there was no mistaking the tell-tale sign of her true heritage. The third eye. 

The prince easily ignored the burning pain that resulted from his defeat and forced split from Shinryu. His attention focused only on this new revelation. Never would he had guessed that this warrior was one of his own kind. However, what shocked him was that she could use magic. 

Questions filled Zenos and he wanted answers. 

The warrior of light tensed when she heard distant footfall approaching them. Her friends and allies, no doubt. Judging by the fear in her eyes, Zenos figured they had no idea what she was. 

Taking advantage of the distraction, Zenos threw himself forward. The woman barely had time to react to his presence beside her before he brought his closed fist down onto her head. Picking up the unconscious warrior before she fully landed on the ground, he made a quick retreat from the royal menagerie. 

Her friends and allies failed arrive soon enough. All that Lyse could find of the warrior of light was her abandoned headband.

**Author's Note:**

> Almost everything about this is a little vague and out there. The idea has been stirring for a while and I wanted to get it out there. I haven't played ffxiv yet but I'd love feedback if people are interested in seeing this (or my idea for a Garlean wol) expanded upon.


End file.


What money he did have was split between his backpack and guitar case, carefully hidden in places none would think to look. A bit of money for use was in a pocket, but if it were taken he would not be destitute. Not that anyone would have interest in bothering him anyway; tall for 15 years old but not with a terribly strong build, he didn't look as though he had anything of worth to take and it wouldn't be worth the bother anyway. Further, he dressed in the style of the adventurers that were getting common lately, and therefore probably had a trick up his sleeve, as many thieves and muggers had learned the hard way.

He didn't.

Besides the clothes, backpack, and guitar on his back, he possessed little other than a recently-acquired thousand-yalm stare. Everything that he'd had previous he had sold, and kept only a -literal- handful of items. He had no need for them any longer, not since he had already lost what was most precious to him.

He had walked south from Ul'dah for a number of hours, pausing only to drink water when he remembered, or to adjust the light fabric he'd wrapped around his head to protect from the harsh Thanalan sun when the wind shifted it. Hazel eyes stared out from a gap in the protective headwear, and from the bottom, long, copper-red hair that he apparently was not used to wearing loose, as it kept getting caught by the wind, and he kept grabbing it out of confusion, only to quickly yank away his hand.

The sun had nearly set and he had kept walking, though it appeared to be because he simply hadn't had anything to stop him, not out of an actual destination. The dimming light finally caught his attention, and he looked around to get his bearings, noticing an inn of some sort nearby.

Oh, lodging. He'd not thought of that when he had left. He hadn't been thinking of anything, really, despite trying to think of anything other than the pain of loss...

Unwinding the delicate fabric from around his head, he tied it to one of his backpack straps and walked into the inn, ducking to the side to avoid potentially colliding with someone. Nobody was leaving, so he took the opportunity to sweep the room with an unblinking, uncaring stare. He noticed a small stage in the corner, and for a moment felt a tug, wanting to get up there. It was what he had trained to do, what he had done so many times.

...But it hadn't saved them. It was his fault that they were gone...

The innkeeper, watching him from behind the bar, finally sighed and got his attention. "You perform?" he asked, and the traveler blinked as he realized that the question had been directed at him. "I might be able to offer a discount on meals or lodging if you do well enough, a crowd spends a bit more when in a good mood." Considering this, the traveler nodded and began to take off his gear, groaning with pain as he did so. "Y'got a name?"

"...Lysander Morgensonne."

The innkeeper shrugged. "Well, Lysander, like I said, if you can change the mood here I might be able to make it worth your while."

Putting his backpack by the bar where it wouldn't easily be rummaged through or stolen, he picked up the guitar case and moved to the stage. From the case he pulled out a lovely black-lacquered guitar, and after a moment of quiet tuning, strummed once, creating a pleasant sound that got the attention of nearly everyone. After playing the opening bars to a favorite Ul'dahn tune, he sang, and those who hadn't noticed or cared earlier now did. One could hear that his voice was still changing, but it was still lovely, and he had clearly trained to accommodate for his continuing change. He played a couple more songs before he got quiet and his vision blurred.

There was one song he'd never hear again. It had been only a little more than a week, but...

The previous songs had been upbeat and bright, but this one was sweet and sad. For a moment, just a few precious minutes, he heard her singing with him, as they had always done, in harmony with each other. The room fell silent, listening respectfully, though they didn't understand why. This song had meant something to him, and they all listened silently until he finished.

It hadn't helped, the pain was worse. Putting down the guitar, he stepped to the center of the stage. He needed to focus on something else. He flowed into dance, concentrating on his movements, pushing away all other thoughts. He needed no music, he created it as he moved, translating sound into a visual spectacle at which one could marvel. Nothing else mattered at that moment, as he poured himself into the art and moved with fluid grace and beauty. Once more the room was silent, but now it was awe, and nobody dared to break the spell that he was casting. He finished the dance, and it seemed as though everyone was collectively holding their breath, waiting for someone else to risk ruining the moment.

Someone finally did, and then the applause began. Lysander heard almost none of it, the pain was still there, the noise in his head... A different dance, and once again the audience was enraptured. And again. And again, until he was too exhausted to continue.

As he stepped off the stage he staggered, and was caught by a rather well-dressed Elezen man. "You were marvelous! Please, share my table, I must know more about where you learned your art."

Numbly, Lysander nodded in reply, and followed to a table in a private part of the inn. He sat down and stared off at nothing, certain that he should do or say something, but there was so much noise in his head that he couldn't think.

"I have taken the liberty of ordering a meal already as I assumed that after that performance you would be famished. Ah, further, if you require lodging my room has a spare bed available."

The pieces finally fit together enough for Lysander to form a coherent thought, and he shrugged in agreement. "Just don't be too rough about it, it would be my first time, and I won't be very good about it."

The Elezen man's eyes went wide before he burst into hearty laughter. "Oh! My sincere apologies, I didn't realize that I had given you that impression! No, I assure you with all sincerity that my intentions are both chaste and honorable."

Blinking again, Lysander was certain that he should feel badly or embarrassed about that, but he was relieved to find that after everything that had happened he was simply numb. "...Sorry. It was rude of me to assume something like that."

"Do not fret," he chuckled, waving a hand, "now that I review my approach and choice of words I understand how you came to that conclusion. No, I am simply a traveler as well, and I am impressed by your skill. As my manservant is off taking care of his own personal business I am left alone tonight and thus have no company for a meal and have a bed spare for someone to use. If you don't mind me saying so, you look as though you badly need both."

Lysander nodded again, gratefully taking a glass of wine that had just been poured, and the alcohol helped numb the ache further. For the first time in many days he finally smiled, and felt a lump rise in his throat that he almost couldn't choke down. Without a word, the Elezen offered a handkerchief and busied himself with sampling his own wine until Lysander had composed himself.

"Thank you..." he said, letting the question speak for itself.

"Marichaunt, of Ishgard," the Elezen supplied, "which is why I seem to be one of the few who appears able to appreciate your talent. Please, tell me, where did you learn? Ah! Once you are done eating, that is," he remarked as one of the inn workers brought over their meal.

It was just now that Lysander realized just how ravenous he was, and only good manners and the desire to not insult his host kept him from stuffing himself. Besides, he knew he'd make himself sick if he rushed. After he had at least eaten enough to blunt the sharp edge of hunger he explained his upbringing in Ul'dah and where he had studied music and dance. He talked of his dream to eventually perform for the Sultana and her court, which snapped him back to reality.

"Is aught amiss?" asked Marichaunt, looking concerned but averse to prying.

Biting his lip, Lysander fought another wave of tears. "I...can't. Not anymore. It's my fault. They're gone and it's because of me..."

Refilling Lysander's glass, the Elezen recognized a fresh emotional wound and deliberately changed the subject. "Well, the weather here is such a change from home. Snow year-round there, but here it is so hot that it barely ever rains. We are both hardy people, are we not? I endure the bitter, biting cold, and you the bright, burning sun. Surely we would perish in each other's home, but at home we are right at home, are we not?"

The distraction helped and Lysander hesitantly asked him about life in Ishgard, which Marichant was happy to expound upon, feeling quite relieved when a warm smile appeared that touched and lit up the young Hyur's eyes. He couldn't help but mirror his laugh as well; it was infectious and merry, and clearly he had needed that release.

Their repast finished, Lysander had a brief moment of panic before his host assured him that his belongings had been taken up to his room. "There is a bath in there as well, and I imagine that you would welcome that after your journey."

He would, and did, taking the opportunity to clean up properly, as he had no idea when he would be able to do so again. Marichant remained outside the door until Lysander told him to come in. "I'm not shy, and it's a bother to shout through the door," he said, scrubbing his fingers through his hair. The Elezen commented upon it, as he had never seen that color before, and Lysander's face fell as he wound a lock of it around his finger. "It is... It was mother's color. We...used to braid it for each other, so it wouldn't get in the way while she weaved and while I performed..."

The other man noticed that he had worn it loose earlier. ...Oh, that explained some of the story...

They conversed a while longer as Lysander finished his bath and changed into fresh clothes. He brushed out his hair rather listlessly until Marichant took it from his hand to work out the tangles himself. "Usually it is my manservant who does this for me, but he isn't here and you appear to require the assistance."

"...Thanks. Sorry to be a bother."

"You are far from a bother. Rather, you are the most interesting companion I have had in some time. Thank you."

Shortly after that Lysander reclined back on the bed, staring at the ceiling while the other man extinguished the lights and got into his own bed. He couldn't sleep yet, even though he was exhausted. Eventually, though, Marichaunt heard soft crying from across the room, and tried his best to appear asleep so as to spare his feelings. What had happened? It was none of his business, but even so, it hurt a little that he could do little to ease the other man's pain. However, he knew that what he had done had provided comfort, security, and hope, things that he knew had been greatly appreciated that evening.

He dozed off himself when he finally heard soft, even breathing from the other bed...


	2. Prologue 02: A Passionate Flame

The market in New Gridania was as busy as usual, but for all of its bustle it wasn’t as noisy as the bazaar in Ul’dah. Perhaps it was the trees and greenery that muffled the sound rather than harsh stone that amplified it, perhaps it was the people themselves that weren’t given to shouting or raising their voices. Regardless, while Lysander missed the chaotic commerce of his former home, he was growing fond of the orderly yet determined pace at which people shopped in his current home. 

Flicking his wrist, a fan dropped into his hand, and he opened it with a practiced snap. It wasn’t that hot out, but the breeze had stopped, and all of the greenery meant that it was a bit more humid than Ul’dah. Heat had never bothered him, not as a son of the desert, but even in a slightly cooler climate like this a bit of mugginess was almost unbearable. 

A bag over one arm, he moved through the crowd to examine stalls and pick up a few things here and there. He didn’t need much, not with his current profession, as though he was still relatively new he did fetch a decent price, and that covered a great deal of expenses. Small luxuries and needs, though, were his to deal with, and he enjoyed the little time he had to himself to get out and about a bit. It wasn’t as though he was cooped up exactly, but it was expected to be “on call,” as it were, and therefore the few hours he could get away he managed carefully. 

Stopping by one last stall, he paused, staring at what was possibly a familiar figure, but he wasn’t certain, and anyroad, the name eluded him. No, there was a name, what was it? “…Marichaunt?” he asked, certain that he had been wrong, but when the figure became a profile and then a full face, he gasped with delight to realize that he’d been right. “Ah! It is you! It’s been, oh, five years, hasn’t it?” 

The tall, blonde Elezen man looked at him with much the same expression that Lysander had worn a moment before, but again he mirrored the Hyur and laughed. “Fury take me, it _is_ you, Lysander! And yes, I believe it has been five years. Well, they’ve certainly been good to you,” he replied, looking his companion up and down, “you’ve become a fine young man in that time. It’s good to see you, I have thought of you and wondered how you’ve… Oh.” He trailed off and his eyebrows went up as he took in Lysander’s manner of dress and posture.

Chuckling, Lysander hid a smile behind the fan, but the way it crinkled the corners of his eyes and made them light up showed it clearly. “So you’ve already figured it out. I’m not surprised, I do make it rather obvious, but then, I also make it look quite good.”

“That you do, my friend, though I am not surprised that this is the path you’ve chosen, given one of the first things you said to me when we first met!”

It was Lysander’s turn to laugh as he folded the fan and smiled, giving Marichaunt a fond look. “Well, it isn’t a _bad_ profession, really. And to be honest, I’ve not got many other skills at which I can make a living just yet. I thought that while I was still young and attractive I might as well give it a try, and when I am no longer desirable move on to something else. Anyroad, it’s good to see you, I’ve wondered about you as well, and I never got the chance to properly thank you for all that you did.”

“It wasn’t much-“ Marichaunt averred, but was cut off when Lysander gestured sharply at him with his fan.

“You gave some random Hyur a second chance at life with a bit of kindness that you could just as easily have withheld. There was no reason for you to open up your room and your heart like that, but you did because it was the right thing to do, and I intend to repay you for that. I…” He sighed and shook his head, looking momentarily downcast. “I was in a very bad spot when we met, and if we hadn’t, I…might not be here…” Exhaling heavily, he found his smile again. “But I’m serious, please, let me find a way to repay it. Are you in Gridania for long?”

Nodding, Marichaunt mirrored Lysander’s smile. “Only for another day, but yes. I’ve nothing going on this afternoon or tonight, but… Ah! I am sorry, I did not mean to imply…” He waved his hands in embarrassment, but Lysander took them and chuckled softly.

“I know what you meant, relax. You wouldn’t be the first Ishgardian client I’ve had, and definitely not the first who simply wanted intelligent conversation and skilled entertainment. I’ve kept up with my music and dance, and have picked up some new styles from a number of places. Don’t be embarrassed.” He squeezed Marichaunt’s hands. “I’m serious, I’ve got no clients lined up tonight, so I’m free as well. I assume you know where to go,” he teased, giggling at the sudden blush in the Elezen’s cheeks, “so just ask for the Copper Sunflower. I’ll have a pot of tea ready. How’s that sound?”

This somehow relieved the other man, and he nodded, looking quite eager. “That would be lovely. My manservant is off on personal business as well and we will not meet up again until tomorrow, so this timing is excellent. I shall see you in a few hours, then.”

Squeezing his friend’s hands one more time, Lysander waved to him as he darted off, stopping in at one final stall and then making his way back as quickly as possible; that detour had been welcome but put him a couple of minutes behind schedule. He requested a tray of tea to be sent to his room in a little while, informing those in charge of his potential visitor, then returned to his room. It wasn’t opulent, but it was rather plush, and designed around his “talents;” a couple of musical instruments, an open area for dance, an elegant table and chairs, and, of course, a very comfortable bed.

Late that afternoon, there was a knock at the door. Lysander opened it to admit the porter bearing a tray of tea and light snacks. He thanked her and received a polite bow in return, as well as being informed that he had a guest on the way up. Smiling at this information, he thanked her once more and was about to close the door when she nearly bumped into Marichaunt on the way out.

“Oh! My pardons, sir!” she gasped, but the Elezen once more gestured as he had earlier, taking the fault for the near-collision.

“I wasn’t paying attention, it is my apologies.” Offering him a bow as well, she gestured for him to enter the room and returned down the hall. A little unsure of how to proceed, Marichaunt stepped into the room and looked around, though he did relax a little when Lysander closed the door behind him and approached him with open arms. “Ah! There you are!” He accepted the hug given to him and shrugged out of his coat, which the Hyur took and hung up.

“I’m glad you could make it, and you have good timing,” Lysander remarked, indicating the table, “she just brought in tea and something to eat. Please, be seated.” In full “host” mode, Lysander pulled out his chair for him before taking his own seat, then poured the Elezen a cup of tea before serving himself. “Take as much as you like, and if you require more I can send for it. Ah! Will you be staying the night?”

This question made the blonde man almost spill his drink as his cheeks flushed dark red. “I… I believe that I can. At the least, it seemed to be included- That is! I didn’t mean that I assume that we’ll- I came here to visit and-“

Laughing happily, Lysander reached across the table to take his friend’s hand again. “Relax, luv. Like I said, you’re not the first who simply desires platonic and civilized company. I have a number of regulars who find it more convenient and inexpensive to book me for the entire night, as it _is_ quite nice to spend the night in the arms of another. Please, whatever you want, just ask. I am here to satisfy the needs of my clients, do not feel the need to hold back.”

Marichant swallowed and nodded, the blush fading as he sipped his tea and relaxed once again. They conversed for quite some time, necessitating a second batch of tea and food, and the light outside had completely faded to black before Marichaunt sighed and put down his empty cup for the last time. “Ah, this has been lovely. I really had missed you and been a little worried, and I am surprised at how relieved I am to know that you are doing well. Particularly after how you had- Ah, my apologies, I keep inferring that…”

He trailed off as Lysander sighed, smiled, stood, and walked over to him, gently taking his hand and pulling him to his feet. “If you want something, luv, just say so. I am here to satisfy the needs of my clients. _All_ of their needs. Do not feel that you need to hold back. Talk to me.”

Licking his lips, the Elezen’s cheeks colored a little again as he tried to find words that weren’t completely embarrassing. “I… Well, I _have_ been wondering what…what it would be like with…” He cleared his throat and looked away, blinking in surprise when Lysander put soft fingers on his chin and turned him to meet his eyes.

“Talk to me. What do you want?”

Again, Marichaunt hesitated, clearly embarrassed but wanting to ask something. With an amused chuckle, Lysander put an arm around his companion’s waist and ran the other hand up the side of his face to lace his fingers in his hair, pulling him into a very warm, very skilled, and very long kiss. The Elezen almost staggered before he grabbed Lysander for support, then relaxed into it, allowing his hands to roam without thinking about it. When Lysander finally released him to catch his breath he staggered again, then realized that he was holding onto Lysander’s bottom with both hands. He tried to apologize but was interrupted by another delighted laugh.

“What did I just tell you? Talk to me! Tell me what you want! I’m yours tonight, use me as you like.” With a nod, Marichaunt began undoing the other man’s shirt but paused in the middle of it. “ _Use. Me_ ,” Lysander whispered, kissing him again, “don’t hold back.”

His hesitation and uncertainty finally expended, Marichaunt finally allowed himself to enjoy what he was doing, encouraged by his partner, who responded to his desires and requests, but never submissively, and this excited him much more than he had imagined.

Much later, the Elezen sprawled on his back, panting for breath, having kicked away the sheets that stuck to him from sweat, shuddering a little as Lysander nibbled his neck before reclining next to him again, propped up on one elbow and looking extremely pleased with himself. Almost weakly, Marichaunt reached up to wrap a lock of the loose copper-colored hair around his fingers and press it to his lips.

“Fury take me, that was magnificent.”

“Yes, I am,” Lysander chuckled, leaning over once more to brush the ghost of a kiss across his lips before resuming his languid position, tracing delicate fingers across his partner’s body, “and yes, you were. Feeling a bit better?”

“By Halone, _yes_. This is far from my first time, but…”

“But it is with another male,” Lysander chuckled, brushing the back of his fingers across Marichaunt’s cheek, “and I’m honored to be your first. I don’t know if it will be better with others, but I certainly hope so.”

Shaking his head, Marichaunt pulled Lysander on top of himself and ran his fingers through his hair, which Lysander leaned into happily, eyes closed and sighing. “No, I hope that it will only be this way with you. Business takes me this way now and then, and…”

“Appraise me of your schedule and I shall clear mine,” Lysander murmured, almost purring from his partner’s touch, “it is you that I have to thank for your kindness that kept me going a bit longer. Allow me to express that thanks at least once again.”

Now completely relaxed in the other man’s presence, Marichaunt hugged him firmly before kissing him again, letting his hands explore freely and with contentment. “Well, I suppose that I can give you that opportunity a few more times tonight, and again as often as I can in the future.”

“I’d like that.”

Several hours later the lights had been shut off and the sheets rearranged. An arm around the Hyur, Marichaunt kissed a bare shoulder as he felt himself begin to drift off for sleep. As a near-afterthought, he pulled the blanket over them both a little more, enjoying the shared warmth and solid presence of the other man pressed up against him, already asleep and contentedly so. He smiled to himself, remembering that first night, how Lysander had cried himself to sleep, and how now he rested in complete tranquility, extending it to his partner.

_It is strange how things change, how we change. How one small act of kindness can make such a difference. I could not have foreseen this and I am so glad for what I did, not for my own needs, but because I was able make such a small but important change in the life of another._

Yawning, he kissed Lysander’s shoulder again and held him firmly, following him into deep sleep in less than a minute.

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> //If for whatever reason you think I'm interesting, I am the [Random Squirrel](http://randomsquirrel.tumblr.com) on Tumblr. Contains reblogs of things I think are interesting and random acts of shitposting.//


	3. Prologue 03: An Untouchable Flame

The world had ended.

Well, not completely. But for all of the destruction and the lives that had been lost, it might as well have. The weather in so many places had drastically shifted. The lands in others suddenly became lush or barren. Strange, dangerous creatures now stalked places that had once been havens of safety. Those that had survived the event, what many were calling The Calamity, wondered if the dead were actually better off than those who lived…

Lysander leaned on the railing of one of the many sweeping walkways that connected and traversed the city of Limsa Lominsa. The white stone gleamed in the bright afternoon sunlight, washed clean from the rain the night before. His usual rolanberry-flavored cigarette was held loosely between his fingers and he took a drag from it now and then, staring off at nothing in particular as he thought.

He didn’t regret leaving Gridania, or his previous profession. It had been a nice enough city, and it hadn’t been a bad line of work. But as the moon Dalamud had loomed ever closer in the sky and Garlean forces had encroached upon Eorzean lands, more and more people sought emotional comfort rather than physical pleasure. Not that this bothered him, he was capable of it and happy to do so, as a client was a client. But when the moon had shattered and the dread primal had let loose its wrath…

Snarling, he almost crushed the cigarette in his hand. Imperial bastards, they continued to take away from him, even indirectly. He took a long, angry puff from his smoke, exhaling slowly. Nothing to be done about it for now. Yet. But with everything in such uncertainty he had decided that a change of careers was in order. People weren’t likely to have much spare money to spend on a luxury like him, so it was a good idea to get out and find something new. Besides, it had been quite some time since he’d wandered and journeyed, and apparently Eorzea had changed in a number of places. Perhaps he’d find his fortune in Limsa, or even-

No. No, he wasn’t going back to Ul’dah. Only once a year to pay his respects, and while that was coming up in a while, it wasn’t for a little while. Maybe he’d look for something in Thanalan, there were a few places he’d considered revisiting, but not the city. He couldn’t go back home. There wasn’t one to go back to.

He finished his cigarette and ignited the last of it on his palm with a bit of flame, scattering the ashes to the wind. He wasn’t a proper Thaumaturge, as he’d failed out of that guild early on, but he did have a small affinity for fire, given his propensity for accidentally setting things (and a couple of times, himself) on fire. It wasn’t much, but he could produce a tiny flame if he focused, enough to light a campfire. Or, as he used it now, for the occasional cigarette.

Shoving his hands into his pockets, he wandered into the Drowning Wench, rolling his eyes at the name. Really? And people said that Ul’dah had a lack of taste. Well, at least the booze didn’t lack it. He ordered another pint and took a seat at an empty table, rubbing the back of his neck and toying with a lock of his hair. He still didn’t braid it, and while he sometimes tied it back, he often just left it loose. It had been a part of his “image” as a courtesan, but it was probably time for him to change his appearance a bit as well. At least he had a bit to live off of for a while, but how long that’d last, especially with everything being so uncertain right now, he didn’t know.

Halfway through his drink he felt a heavy hand on his shoulder. “Well, yer a pretty wench, ‘ows about a few gil fer yer time, lass?”

Lysander immediately bristled. It wasn’t that he was angry about being mistaken for a female. Seven hells, that androgyny had been part of his allure and “image,” and he was quite proud of it. What made him grind his teeth was that this intoxicated sot thought he was just a two-gil tavern whore.

He gave the scruffy Midlander a polite yet strained smile. “Sorry, mate, but you can’t afford me. B’sides, I serve more…cultured clientele.” Wrinkling his nose, he took a swig of his beer. “And those who have bathed more recently than before the last era.”

Clearly drunk and now embarrassed as well as angry, the other man tried to grab Lysander’s shirt, but this was deflected with insulting ease and a frustrated sigh. “Mate, piss off, you are _literally_ not worth my time, and if you spill my beer I _will_ thump you.”

This pushed the other man over the edge, and he wound up for a heavy punch, telegraphing the move so obviously that Lysander actually had time to give him a look of complete disdain before effortlessly rising out of the chair and dodging away. As the drunk tripped over the now-empty chair, having completely overextended himself, Lysander crossed one ankle over the other, resting his weight on one hand on the table while he sipped his drink.

“Really now, you’re just making a fool of yourself. Sod off and let me get trashed in peace, and- Or not,” he sighed, as the man got to his feet and lunged at him. The dancer once more pivoted with ease and avoided the attack, watching his opponent stumble and have to regain his balance with difficulty. “I’m not against giving people a show, but usually I charge for that sort of thing. Less than my other ‘services,’ anyroad.” He took another swig, finishing his glass as he yet again avoided being tackled, snorting with amusement as the other man tripped and fell onto the table, knocking it over.

Lysander set his empty mug on a non-upturned table and put a hand on his hip, his weight shifted to one leg as he smirked with utter insolence. “You know, this is actually pretty entertaining. And here I thought that the night would be boring- Whoops, missed again!” Now feeling extremely cheeky and rather limber from the alcohol he danced around the other man, avoiding all punches and attempts to grapple with elegant skill, laughing as he did so. At one point he took the other man’s hand and pulled him in for a quick few steps together before spiraling away and flowing into one of the exotic Thavnarian dances that crowds always enjoyed.

All merriment must eventually come to an end, though it could have done so a little better for the unfortunate Yellowjacket guard that led a small squad that had been called in to deal with the disturbance. The drunk had picked up a chair to throw, and naturally, Lysander had smoothly avoided it, which the guard took straight to the face. Fortunately, Roegadyn are hardy sorts, especially ones serving in the city guard, so this only made him angry. The color drained from the drunk’s face as he suddenly discovered that he was now very, _very_ sober. Lysander winced in sympathy and was about to inquire as to the state of the guard’s health when he was cut off.

"Right, you, you’re under arrest for disturbing the peace and assaulting a member of the guard,” he growled, rubbing his nose, then glared at Lysander, “and _you_ , what’s your part in all of this?”

Under other circumstances Lysander might have been flippant or snarky, but right now he knew that being cheeky would probably land him in a jail cell for the night, and he had plans for more comfortable accommodations. Shrugging, he offered an apologetic smile. “I was having a drink to myself, he made a…business proposal, I told him that I wasn’t interested, and he took offense. Terribly sorry for the bother, I’ve already paid my tab, so I’ll just see myself out. I don’t want further trouble.”

The guard flicked a glance at the inn proprietor, who nodded, confirming the story. He gave Lysander a tired look of “I don’t get paid enough for this” and sighed, shaking his head. “Fine, yer free to go. Just don’t cause any more mischief or I’ll clap you in irons myself.”

Lysander took this opportunity, bowing politely and darting out around the other guards. Once again, he took up a spot leaning on one of the railings overlooking the city and water. Damn. That beer hadn’t been terribly good, but it had been better than nothing, and he wasn’t sure of where else he could get a drink right now. Well, probably time to go find an inn for the night. As he was reaching into his coat for his cigarette case he felt a prickle on the back of his neck and glanced over into a particularly curious shadow.

“Hunh, ye _are_ good,” the darkness said, taking the form of a Lalafell in strange garb that somewhat reminded him of corsairs, but not quite. He folded his arms across his chest and examined Lysander with an impressed look. “Most people can’t notice us.”

Shrugging, Lysander opened the slim metal case with a practiced flick, extracting one of the long, slim, dark-brown cigarettes that smelled of tobacco and rolanberry. He offered the case to the newcomer, who waved it away politely. Lysander put the cigarette between his lips, returned the case to its pocket, and snapped his fingers, creating a small flame that he cupped in both hands to light the end of his cigarette. “I’m an entertainer. I’m used to having eyes on me and knowing where they’re coming from. I’d be a poor performer if I didn’t know how to watch and manipulate a crowd.”

“And a Thaumaturge?” queried the other person, further interested in the flame but not surprised or bothered by it. Lysander shook his head and blew a thin stream of smoke.

“Nah, I tried, but failed out of the guild. I can make that little flame, but can’t actually channel mana. No idea why, but it’s useful enough.”

“Hmm, makes sense, y’move like a trained fighter, not a caster.”

Again Lysander shook his head. “Not a fighter, mate, a dancer. Trained in Ul’dah since I could walk, and I’ve traveled the last ten or so years picking up other styles wherever I go. I tried some weapons, but much as I tried, never could pick up father’s style. Swords and shields aren’t my thing.”

“What about a lighter weapon? Knives or daggers, p’haps?”

Getting the impression that his companion was interested in more than idle chatter, Lysander hoisted himself up to sit on the railing, resting his elbows on his knees and holding the cigarette loosely between two fingers as he studied the inquisitive Lala. “Could do. I cut the hells out of myself ages ago, but I’m a dab hand with a small blade when I need it, and my throwing arm isn’t strong but is accurate. Why do you ask?”

Shrugging, the smaller man leaned against the railing next to him, fingers laced behind his head. “Just being sociable, one artist ta another an’ all.”

Lysander grinned and sat up straighter, taking a long pull from his cigarette, holding it, then exhaling slowly. “Sounds a bit like a job interview to me. You’re not an information broker, since you talk of weapons and not money, and you’re honorable, not like mere cutthroats or assassins. I just wonder what a person would want with someone who’s light on their feet and skilled at fighting without fighting.”

The diminutive man laughed, slapping his leg. “Yer a proper clever one, Jacke’ll like ye, I’m sure.” He offered a hand and a smile. “I’m Underfoot.”

“Lysander Morgensonne,” he replied, completing the gesture.

Gesturing over his shoulder, Underfoot grinned as wide as his face could go. “If ye’ve got nothin’ better ta do and no place ta be, perhaps I can satisfy yer curiosity a bit.”

“Might as well, I haven’t grabbed a place to stay tonight and I’ve got nothing going on anyroad. Lead on, mate.” Lysander pushed himself off of the railing and hooked a thumb in his belt as he followed, strolling along with his usual rolling swagger, watching everything without appearing to, and far more interested than he was trying to let on. What an interesting day it had been….

Not that far from the Wench they passed by the Fisherman’s Guild, then continued on along the docks, which made Lysander slightly wary, though he managed to hide it for the moment. Their path took them to a place just outside of the city but still on the pier, in a rather unassuming but well-maintained building. He burned the last of his cigarette the same as he’d done to the other one earlier and dusted off his hands. Underfoot waved to someone lounging against the wall next to the door, who gave Lysander a cursory look, then went back to appearing bored as he watched everything without appearing to. This almost made Lysander stumble, as he hadn’t expected this sort of casual yet complete observation, and wondered what he was getting into.

As they walked in, a female Hyur at one of the tables perked up and waved at him. “Hey! Underfoot! Did’ja hear about that doofus that got nicked by the guards today?”

She was tall for a female, though not nearly as much as him, and he was immediately impressed by the mane of gold-blonde hair that cascaded over her shoulders, somewhat reminding him of a lion. (No, lionesses didn’t have manes like the males did, but damn if it wasn’t a startling resemblance.) Dark blue eyes twinkled with glee as she clutched her mug in both hands, grinning fit to burst, and she seemed ready to continue with her story when she noticed Lysander and somehow managed to grin even more widely.

“Whoa, who are _you_ , cutie?” she giggled, “it’s about time that we recruited some eye candy around here. B’sides me, that is.”

Rolling his eyes, Underfoot folded his arms across his chest and sighed with good humor. “He’s tha one what got that bloke nicked by the guards. Daft bastard made a pass at ‘im, then tried to pick a fight, an’ Lysander here jus’ danced in circles around him, neat as ye please.”

This appraisal made her give him a much more introspective look, and Lysander got the impression that he might be in a lion’s den after all. “Hunh, really now,” she remarked, tapping a finger on the tabletop before getting up to get a better look at him. “We don’t often recruit people out of nowhere, so you must be pretty damn good to get someone to chat you up. Weapons?”

He blinked a couple of times at the shift in atmosphere, but caught himself quickly. “Yes and no. I’m not a proper fighter, but I suppose that I could learn. I’m not that bad with knives. Damn near sliced off my thumb ages ago but I’ve gotten better since then.” Holding out his hand, palm-up, he showed the thin, clean scar that followed the curve of his thumb in a long, wide arc. “You know how you’re supposed to cut _away_ from yourself when holding something? Yeah, I didn’t at that time.”

Eyes wide and gasping with awe, she grabbed his hand and poked at the line, wincing in empathy but still laughing. “Oh Twelve, that must have bled for hours. Hey! Jacke! Come have a look at this!”

“Someone or somethin’ catch yer fancy, Risu?” someone asked, and Lysander felt his throat tighten and his mouth go dry as another Hyur walked up, but male, and so very, _very_ handsome. Dark brown hair poked out neatly from under a green and white bandana, and he was dressed the same as the other two with whom Lysander had been chatting. Bright blue eyes were filled with curiosity and then a similar sort of awe when he saw what Risu had pointed out to him, and he took Lysander’s hand to have a look himself.

“Ye cut yerself a good one there, lad, must’ve been a damn good knife. That looks like it cut deep but clean.” He chuckled to himself and released Lysander’s hand after grasping it firmly. “Ah, apologies, didn’t introduce m’self yet. I’m Jacke. Now, do ye have a name, me dimber dancer?”

Oh gods, oh merciful Twelve, that accent. Lysander was puzzled for a moment, but quickly parsed it, and tried to swallow his stomach and not his tongue, both of which were wrapped rather firmly around his brain. “Lysander Morgensonne,” he finally managed, realizing that he was staring and felt his cheeks and ears grow hot.

“L’sander, eh? Looks like Underfoot dragged ye here wi’ nary a whid about why.” All Lysander could do was nod, not quite certain what was going on, but interested all the same, and strangely, not the least bit worried. Jacke gestured to the rest of the room. “We’re the Sisters of the Dutiful Edelweiss ta most people, but ta those ta whom it matters, we’re the Rogues’ Guild.”

Blinking again with surprise, Lysander was actually relieved by this information. “Half a moment, pull the other one, it’s got bells on. You’re telling me that I’ve been scouted by the Rogues? I’ve bloody well heard of you all the way out in Gridania! Well,” he averred, rubbing the back of his neck, “I did dabble with information brokering at the same time, so while you’re not _famous_ it’s no real surprise that I’d have learned about you lot.”

The hairs on the back of his neck stood up and he spun around to see a female Seeker perched on a chair, studying him curiously. She showed her fangs and laughed raucously. “Cor! Yer a bene cove, Lysander, never ‘ad a colt sniff me out if I didn’t want them ta do so.”

“Well, looks like V’kebbe likes you, too,” Risu snickered, “can we keep him, Jacke, pleeeease? I promise I’ll feed him and take him for walks every day, and give him baths when he gets all scruffy!” She made puppy-dog eyes as well as a “pretty please” gesture, earning laughter from her fellow Rogues.

Feeling quite comfortable somehow, Lysander put his fists on his hips and smirked at Risu. “You’d better be certain about that, luv, I’m quite high-maintenance. My ego needs continual stroking, and it takes _such_ a precise diet to have hair as shiny and full as mine!”

Risu erupted into uproarious laughter, sitting down to wipe her eyes. “Oh _Twelve_ , please say that you’re staying, you are such a delight, sweetie.”

With an amused smirk, Jacke looked him up and down again. “Merriment aside, we do mean business, lad. But that means fightin’ now and then. ‘Ow’s yer bladework?”

“Ah, not very good. At all,” Lysander replied, now feeling like he'd missed a vital skill that he should've picked up earlier, “but I’d like to learn. I’m rubbish with a sword, but daggers might be something for which I’m suited.”

There was a silent conversation exchanged in a few glances among the other Rogues, each of them giving a slight nod. Jacke flashed Lysander a smile that made the performer weak in the knees. “Well, one last thing, then, or really, three things. The Code.” He held up his fingers, ticking off each point as he listed them. “First, ye don’t bite from yer mates. Second, ye don’t rook a crew out o’ their spoils. An’ thirdly, ye don’t trade culls like they was chattel. While the Yellowjackets enforce the law, as ye saw t’night in the tavern, we enforce the  _Code_. We walk in the darkmans so that goodly folk can walk without fear in the light.”

Lysander considered all of this, thinking quietly. “So you protect those who can’t fight for themselves, and bring back what was wrongly taken.” He smiled warmly and hooked his thumbs in his belt. “I’m in. I was looking for a change of scenery anyroad, and maybe this time I’ll be strong enough to protect those I care about.”

Grinning, Risu hugged him and ruffled his hair. “Well! Guess I’m officially your older sister now! Risukage Hayaken, here to help. Follow me, I’ll get’cha set up with your first daggers and all, and get your questions.” She took him by the wrist and dragged him off, gesturing animatedly. “You’ll have a day or two to feel things out, just in case you’re not cut out for this after all. There’s no problem with that, we’re not exactly exclusive, but what we do isn’t for everybody. So! What’re your questions?”

The day finally caught up with him, and he sighed with a weary smile. “Can we get a beer anywhere nearby?”

Risu stopped up short, her eyes wide, and then her grin matched them. “You. I _like_ you. We’re going to get along fantastically.”

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> //If for whatever reason you think I'm interesting, I am the [Random Squirrel](http://randomsquirrel.tumblr.com) on Tumblr. Contains reblogs of things I think are interesting and random acts of shitposting.//


	4. Prologue 04: A Quenched Flame

It was evening in Limsa Lominsa, and while the city’s upper decks and merchant rows still bustled with lively chatter and commerce, the docks at the southern end of the city were nearly silent, save for the soft crash and splash of waves against the support pylons.

That was because Rogues made no noise at all.

They were nearly invisible as well, though it was that strange sort of non-visibility wherein a person simply makes themselves unnoticed. Someone directly looking might notice, but a Rogue who does _not_ want to be noticed won’t, until they do, and then a person often finds a sharpened bit of steel in some vital organ first. Since there was nobody there who _could_ see them, other than each other, it must be stated that they knew that there were three of them out there that evening, and all of them were watching the ship that had docked earlier that day.

Lysander was rather new to the whole thing, especially getting the hang of not-being-noticed, but was making a decent job of it, if not quite as good as Risu and V’kebbe, who were hands-down the best in the guild. He completely failed at it when Jacke walked up, turning a shade of red nearly the color of his hair.

_Idiot.  You don’t have a chance anyway, quit being a dingus. Besides, there’s a mission on._

He paused in his internal recrimination as the others gathered, still managing to be unseen, and forced himself to find that mental state once more, hiding in plain sight.  Jacke crossed his arms across his chest, nodding to Risu for her report. Quietly, she relayed her findings, in case of accidental nearby ears.

“Confirmed, the treasures are aboard. They tried to play it off as selling them here to another party, but our contact was there for the ‘purchase’ and had a good look. Once they sail tonight they’re as good as gone, so the Yellowjackets better be in place or this’ll all have been for nothing. …Of course, if they move too early, then it’s blown that way as well.”

Jacke confirmed that the city guard was in place and waiting for their cue, and that while they didn’t necessarily _like_ it, they grudgingly understood the need for a bit of secrecy and subtlety in this endeavor. He glanced over at Lysander and grinned, which sent the poor man’s heart into a rhythmic pounding that he was amazed everyone else didn’t hear.

“Doin’ alright there, L’sander? Ye look a tad shaky. Nervous about yer first mission?”

The copper-haired Hyur completely forgot how to speak for a second, shaking his head and blushing again, then cleared his throat and smiled lopsidedly. “Ah, no, just… Not really. It’s just that this is a big responsibility, I want to do my best but I’m a little worried about messing something up.”

Risu grinned at him with her familiar older-sister manner. “You’ll be fine, sweetie, all of us are pros, and we wouldn’t have brought you along if we didn’t think you couldn’t do it. You’re one of our best at sneaking, well, behind me and V’kebbe, anyroad, and you’re pretty damn scary with those knives when you put your mind to it. Hopefully you won’t need those daggers, but best to be prepared.”

“Speakin’ of prepared, everyone’s set ta go, yeah?” Jacke asked, receiving three nods in reply, and nodding in return. “Right then, to yer places, let’s get ready ta dance.”

He gestured for Lysander to follow as V’kebbe and Risu split off and boarded the ship from different directions, and once more Lysander was certain that he was going to make an absolute and total fool of himself.

Twelve help him, the guild leader was handsome and charming, and oh _gods_ , what he wouldn’t give for just a hug. And for a kiss? Ah, the gods would never be so kind. Lysander knew himself to be the hopelessly romantic sort, even after his years of being a courtesan. But it was that reason exactly that he knew he had no chance. He was just someone whose body could be rented for a few hours for the right amount of coin. Who could ever love that? Who would want to? Besides, it wasn’t as though he deserved it.

Without words, Lysander followed, boarding from a different and much more perilous direction; while Risu and V’kebbe had taken the boarding planks, they were traipsing across the mooring ropes. Strangely, while most people would have been bothered by such a perilous route, Lysander’s dancing pedigree had given him a rather surprising level of balance and dexterity. The height and unsteady sway didn’t bother him at all. Now, the water below him…

He landed on the deck, gratefully, shooting a nervous glance over his shoulder, then jumped when he felt a hand on the other. Jacke grinned at him with a soft chuckle. “Ye certain that things are fine?” he asked, and Lysander was grateful for the night that had just fallen, hiding his face coloring crimson yet again.

_Double idiot, what is wrong with you?_

“Ah, just fine, I’m… I’m just not good around water…” he replied, his blush now of embarrassment as he looked away and focused on the ship’s deck instead. Thankfully, Jacke seemed to be amused, but it was in a sympathetic manner.

“Fair enough, not everyone’s cut out fer tha seafarin’ life. How many’d ‘ave been able ta do tha walk that ye just did? That’s why I chose ye fer this mission, L’sander, just keep yer head on an’ ye’ll be just fine.”

Bolstered by his guildmaster’s confidence, Lysander exhaled deeply and found his center again, seeking that state of not-being-seen once more. The ship’s crew was beginning to come up from below decks, apparently getting ready for departure, now that the sun had set. He did a quick mental run-through of the plan; V’kebbe and Risu would grab the treasures and get them off of the ship to Rogues waiting on the docks nearby, and Lysander and Jacke were going to sabotage the steering and sailing components. Done right, this would be dealt with quickly and silently, and with as few casualties and injuries as possible. Paperwork and whatnot with the Yellowjackets was such a tedious bore even when it was the villains that were hurt.

Skillfully, the two of them disabled the steering wheel, ensuring that no matter how it was spun, the rudder wouldn’t move. This complete, they climbed the rigging, aiming to cut the numerous ropes that held the whole thing up and together and allowed the ship to tack into the wind and sail. They were in the middle of severing a particularly thick rope when all seven hells broke loose.

“LEG IT!” shouted Risu, sprinting up the stairs from below decks, pursued by no less than four pirates. Everyone else on deck (at least seven or eight) spun to see the commotion and made to pursue. Both men up in the sails paused in their work, wondering what had just happened to cause her to run like that, knowing that it was definitely a bad thing.

There was a very bright light.

There was a very loud noise.

Lysander felt the wind knocked from his lungs as he was thrown into the sky by an invisible hand.

There was nothing.

 

Bitter. Salty. Wet. Cold.

Lysander gagged and retched, coughing up…water? What? Why would…

Perplexed, he continued to expel the briny liquid from his lungs, mouth, and nose, shakily supporting himself on hands and knees, feeling as though he’d been hit by a chocobo cart.

“Seven hells, you’re alive. The gods were looking out for you, sweetie, though damn near a bit late.”

He blinked a couple of times and scrubbed away the rime from his eyes with the back of his hand, trying to regain his bearings. The world was a blur of dark colors, mixed with a few bright points, all of which finally resolved into the docks next to the boat.

Well, what was _left_ of the boat.

With shaking limbs, he finally sat up, resting his weight on his hands behind him, legs sprawled haphazardly, watching the smoke waft up from the somewhat broken ship, some small flames beginning to catch.

“I… What… We were…”

Sighing deeply, Risu flopped down next to him, looking a little bloodied from a cut on her cheek, but also a mixture of embarrassed and reticent. “My fault. Kinda. A bit. I was sneaking into the hold to get the items and some bloke who had gone down there for another cask of something plowed straight into me. He stumbled backward, tripped on something, and both the damn cask and his lantern went flying, and the lantern shattered.” She put her face in her hands. “Into the gods damned powder room. One of the barrels caught, and it was all I could do to bust arse and get out of there before I went up with everything else.”

She groaned with irritation and rubbed the back of her neck. “I’m gonna get such an earful from so many people about this. I buggered it up pretty good and damn near got you and Jacke killed.”

Lysander blinked and looked at the ship again, looking for the perch where he and the guildmaster had been working, and his jaw dropped. “How did we survive that fall? I… Wait, I’m soaked- Shit, I can’t swim, how-“

“The both of you went into the drink, apparently, and he got to you just in time, ‘cause once I picked myself up off of the deck after taking a piece of it to the back of the head he shouted at me to help get the two of you out of the water and onto the docks, and you were out cold.” She gestured toward the Fisherman’s Guild, where Jacke was talking with some of the Yellowjackets. “He’s taking care of ‘politics’ right now. Sounds like they’re a bit miffed that everything went pear-shaped like that, but it sounds like what we need wasn’t damaged. The powder kegs went up, but it was an explosion, not a conflagration, so they’re putting out the fires right now.”

Flopping onto her back, she sighed and closed her eyes. “Sorry, sweetie, glad you’re okay. I- Shit, you _are_ okay, aren’t you?”  
Lysander had begun to go into shock, not only from the cold of being soaked in the Limsan nighttime air, but almost dying helpessly, especially from _water_ … She sat up and pulled him into her lap, hugging him close and stroking his hair. Reflexively, he wrapped his arms around her and buried his face in her shoulder, trying to hold back tears and stop shaking, but he couldn’t get out of his head the last moments that he remembered before he had regained consciousness on the docks. They had very nearly been his _last_ memories.

She hummed quietly, nothing in particular, as she wasn’t a musician or good at comfort, but knew she should do something to help him relax. After a few minutes he sniffed, and pulled away, scrubbing at his eyes. “I’m…a bit better now. That’s… I’m scared of water. Can’t swim.”

Giving him a look of amazed astonishment, she laughed and hugged him firmly. “You’re hydrophobic and you still went up there with Jacke like that? You are a brave, crazy bastard, and I am so proud of you. That took a lot of courage, and I’m even more mad at myself that it ended like this. I- Shit, time for me to get an arse-chewing, I think,” she remarked, seeing Jacke and the leader of the Yellowjackets approaching, and stood, brushing herself off. “With any luck I’ll still be in the guild tomorrow.”

With a bit of difficulty, Lysander got to his feet as well, almost stumbling when he saw Jacke smile. “Ye had me worried, L’sander, but it looks like it’ll take more than a ship goin’ sky-high ta kill ye. Head on back, get a hot cup o’ somethin’ ta drink and a fresh change o’ clothes, mission’s complete, as it were.”

He wanted to say something, anything, but he tripped over his own tongue, lost in those bright blue eyes. All he could do was nod, and he felt his knees go a bit weak when the smile widened. Leaving a somewhat damp trail on the way back, he paused at the door to try to wring out what he could from his clothes and removed his boots. Fortunately, nothing was torn or bloodied, and everything could be dried without damage from the salt water, but he definitely needed a hot bath and dry clothes.

Gossip was already flying when he walked in and ducked toward the stairs, and though he got numerous questioning looks, nobody asked anything, knowing they’d get the full story when everyone else returned. He went to his room, discarded his clothes in a heap on the bathroom floor, and hastily rinsed off in the hottest water he could. With the salt out of his hair he dried off and messily toweled it to a sort of heavy dampness and changed into a fresh shirt and trousers, going back downstairs barefoot because he just couldn’t be bothered with anything more.

With a cup of hot tea in hand, he took a seat at an unoccupied table, and was about to have a sip when everyone else returned. Risu looked less chastised than he had expected, and she perked up to cross the room and flop next to him. “Well, looks like things worked out after all. The ship isn’t a total loss, but is going to need a _massive_ refit to be useful. The city has confiscated it, as well as everything on it, all of the treasure included, and the pirates are safely in prison, so hurrah!”

Smiling and sighing with relief, Lysander nodded and took a sip of the welcome drink. “That’s good. It would’ve been a bit rubbish for me to nearly have died and got nothing to show for it.”

She grinned broadly and elbowed him in the ribs, almost making him slosh his tea. “Well, what doesn’t kill you makes you stronger, right? Think of how much more powerful you are now!”

Lysander gave her a somewhat wry look, rolling his eyes. “If I have to have a near-death experience every mission then either I’ll be immortal by the end of the year or I’ll have quit and gone back to being a courtesan. At least that way when I get screwed I get paid and sometimes something out of it for myself.”

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> //If for whatever reason you think I'm interesting, I am the [Random Squirrel](http://randomsquirrel.tumblr.com) on Tumblr. Contains reblogs of things I think are interesting and random acts of shitposting.//


	5. Prologue 05: A Righteous Flame

Just outside of Aleport, in sight of the walls but not seen himself, Lysander scouted a location that he would remain unseen, yet be able to observe the road.

It was a simple enough mission, assigned to a novice yet skilled and clever Rogue; attempt to locate a known smuggler and intercept the cargo he was moving. Usually he was let alone because one could track him to bigger and more lucrative targets, but he had outlived his usefulness with the last items he had taken. Thusly, Lysander moved silently through the tall grass to find the best vantage point; his mission was to observe and report, and only interfere if it looked as though he and his cargo might get away.

A strange scent caught his attention and he tensed; blood and other offal, and he looked around to ensure that he hadn’t stumbled into something dangerous. It was the reverse; a mangled coeurl corpse, and after a moment of revulsion at the messiness at it all, realized that it had been killed for its pelt.

“Bloody poachers,” he snarled, “seven hells take them all.”

As he was about to shift his position it was now a sound that demanded his attention, and his stomach sank. Kittens. Checking the brush nearby he found five young coeurl kittens, looking a little scared and very hungry. Shit. He couldn't leave them, but…

Risking breaking his cover, he stood up and scanned his surroundings all the way around to the horizon. Yes, he might have enough time. Scooping up the smallest one, he gave the other four a quick scratch to reassure them and ran back to Aleport as fast as he could, the kitten digging its claws into his chest for support. It didn't hurt much, as his shirt was taking the brunt of it, but he didn't slow his pace until he skidded to a stop in front of the Yellowjacket guards.

As he tried to catch his breath one of the guards saw the animal in his arms and leveled his weapon at him. “Filthy poacher!”

“I- What!?” Lysander was both confused and indignant and gave the yellow-clad guard a look of frustration. “I found this one and its siblings, its mother was poached, thank you very much!”

“Ah-ha! So you admit it!”

The smirk of triumph that the guard wore made Lysander groan loudly in frustration. “By the Twelve, Jacke is right about you lot. Just take me to your captain or whatever.”

Still smirking victoriously, the guard left his partner to guard the gate while he led Lysander to the captain’s office. “Sir! Caught a poacher! He walked right up to us!” the guard announced, throwing an energetic salute.

The captain, a very large Roegadyn man, looked Lysander up and down and snorted with amusement. “Not with those daggers he isn’t. You’re one of Jacke’s boys, then?”

Nodding, Lysander shifted his grip on the kitten, who was beginning to squirm out of boredom. He scratched its ears, settling it a bit. “Correct. I was sent to track a smuggler, but in seeking a place to lie in wait I found this little one and his siblings, his mother had been killed for her pelt. I… I just couldn't leave them there to die."

With a thoughtful stare, the captain looked at him for a moment, then at the kitten, then nodded. “Strange that the poacher didn’t get the kittens as well, there’s a large black market for them as pets. I’ll assemble a squad and you’ll show us where you found ‘em; you get your smuggler, we’ll take care of dealing with this crime.”

Exhaling with relief, Lysander nodded and smiled. “Thank you.” He continued to pet the kitten, who purred happily in his arms, and as soon as the squad was present led them to where he had found the others. To his further relief, the other four were still there, and they were secured while other Yellowjackets searched the area for clues. After a few minutes, Lysander glanced at the road and saw two figures traveling down it in his direction. Squinting, he recognized one of them as his target and immediately dropped to the ground, careful not to hurt the kitten still in his arms. When the others gave him a funny look he returned it with a glare.

“Get down, you fools,” he hissed, “he’ll see you! Hurry!”

The captain returned his glare but gestured for everyone to comply and flattened himself next to Lysander, looking up the road. “Normally I take offense to someone else commanding my people, but that bastard is one we’re after, too.”

“He’s yours, the cargo is mine,” Lysander replied, not having taken his eyes off of his quarry, “I was supposed to watch and report, but that cart has way more in it than earlier reports told. He’s doing a runner.”

The captain agreed. “We got word that he would be coming through, but not with all of that. Looks like he realized he’s been sold out and is taking a ship elsewhere. Not on my watch, he isn’t.”

Carefully, Lysander put the kitten to the side, still gently petting it so it wouldn't make any noise. Much like a coeurl, he watched, almost without breathing, waiting for his quarry to approach. Then, still catlike, he pushed himself up off of the ground a little to crawl forward, approaching close enough that he could strike without warning. The cart pulled by two chocobos slowly rolled along the road. His target, the Highlander male, was driving the cart, the other was a Miqo’te guard. He had only one chance at this; he couldn't risk him bolting, and it was too dangerous to attempt such a thing in Aleport proper.

From the numerous pleats at the bottom of his shirt, Lysander extracted a throwing knife without looking. He had a rather scary number of knives and daggers hidden about his person, and only he knew the exact number. Holding it delicately, he did a final round of calculations, stood up, and threw. It embedded itself neatly and deeply into the neck of the guard, who was too surprised to scream. Lysander was already moving the moment that the knife had left his fingertips, sprinting and leaping off of the top of the embankment that overlooked the road.

The driver turned to see what was wrong with the guard just in time to see Lysander make his jump, and immediately realized what was going on. He was a half a second too slow, however, as the Rogue had successfully landed on the bench and used his momentum to tackle the driver and send them both sprawling into the dirt. The driver tried to get away but froze when he felt cold, sharp steel pressed against his throat.

“My orders were to bite back some baubles you nicked,” Lysander growled, “they said nothing about you.”

The man recognized the implication, as well as his slang, and swallowed in fear. “Bugger me, you’re one of them Rogues.”

“Yer a clever mort, pity you didn’t use it for better means,” Lysander grinned, seeing the Yellowjackets run up, holding the kittens.

“Well done, lad,” the captain chuckled, petting the kitten that Lys had been holding earlier, “we'll take it from here.”

Lysander was about to stand when the man stared at the animal in the captain’s arms. “So that’s where they went!” he blurted out, realizing too late to what he had just confessed, and felt the pressure of the dagger increase.

“You…”

It was one word, just a single syllable, but the hate and heat in it made the man’s blood run cold. Quickly, the captain stepped in. “He needs to tried properly, lad, justice will be served. Let us take care of it from here.”

Shaking with rage, he obeyed, putting away the dagger and taking the kitten, needing something to calm himself. “I’m sorry, little one,” he whispered into the soft fur, “you’re an orphan now. Just like me.”

The guard on the cart was still alive, but not happy, and both of them were apprehended and dragged into Aleport while two of the guards attempted to guide the cart from out of the middle of the road. The kittens were taken to the captain’s office, and Lysander followed, not yet ready to relinquish his temporary companion, who mewed at him and patted his arm.

“He’s hungry,” Lysander supplied, “but hopefully… Good, looks like they’re on solids now,” he commented after checking the kitten's teeth. One guard volunteered to go to the inn to get some fish for them and dashed out the door.

Sighing and sitting down near the other four, he laughed when they all swarmed him for warmth and comfort. The guard returned with plenty of fresh fish to satisfy, and Lysander's sharp blades easily and cleanly sliced it into small pieces for them to eat. He was going to get up and get the cargo that he’d been sent to obtain, but found himself trapped under five happy, purring coeurl kittens.

“Um, I think I’ll be here a while,” he chuckled, and reclined comfortably. The small one that he’d been holding curled up on his chest and dozed off, and he couldn't help taking a nap himself.

An hour or so later the captain returned, waking Lysander, who felt a little silly, but was waved off. “You kept them out of our hair while we followed up on a few things. I’ve got what you came for, so you’re free to go when you like.”

Lysander caught the hint that they would like him gone as quickly as possible, as though they were grateful for what he’d done, there was still no small amount of rivalry, and even hostility, between the Rogues and the Yellowjackets. He got up carefully, shifting aside the kittens to stand up and smooth out his clothes.

“Will they be okay?” he asked, giving them one last look.

The captain shrugged and nodded at them. “We’ll figure something out, find them good homes. I recall that some are trying to train them as mounts, might reach out to those people as well.”

Sighing, Lysander turned to leave, and then felt a swat at his ankle and heard a petulant meow. He turned and looked down to see the smallest kitten, his companion of most of the day, looking up at him and flicking his tail. When Lysander didn’t respond immediately, he sat down and continued to give the tall Hyur an amber-yellow stare, ears and whiskers forward.

“I can’t, little one, they won’t let me.”

“Nyao!”

“I’m serious!”

“Nyaaaooo!”

“Look, I do want to take you with me but they’ll have a fit about it.”

“Mrrrrr-h’h!” trilled and huffed the kitten, somehow looking insulted. Lysander shot a helpless glance at the captain, who burst into laughter.

“I think he’s taken a shine to you. Ahh, nothing to be done for it, you did save their lives, and it will be hard enough to get them all good homes. He’s yours. B’sides, he’s half a Rogue anyway, all sneaky and with built-in daggers.”

With a smile, Lysander stooped and scooped the animal into his arms, who burst into a happy purr immediately. “Y’know, we’re both orphans, so I guess I’m your older brother now. Since I don’t always use the second half of my name, why don’t you use it? How’s ‘Xander’ sound?” The purr got louder, though that might just have been from the chin scritchies. “Well, little brother, it’s time to go home.”

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> //If for whatever reason you think I'm interesting, I am the [Random Squirrel](http://randomsquirrel.tumblr.com) on Tumblr. Contains reblogs of things I think are interesting and random acts of shitposting.//


	6. Prologue 06: A Wounded Flame

Like he had during so many missions before, Lysander strolled the paths and docks of yet another port town in La Noscea. This reason was twofold: that the Rogues Guild had jurisdiction only within certain areas of this territory, and that a fair amount of the crimes that they investigated were within those towns.  
  
In a rare instance, he was not accompanied by Xander, who usually followed him everywhere, but when on a mission, the kitten was left with the guild. Dressed like any other dock worker, he blended in with the crowd. An impressive feat, given his distinctive hair and height for a Hyur. But then, he was quite good at being a Rogue, despite only having been one a few years.  
  
He liked missions that involved the trafficking of persons. Not because he wanted to see innocent people suffer, rather, it was the opposite: items and trinkets were just objects, things, and retrieving them could take as long as it took. But freeing people and punishing those who tried to profit off of them, oh, Lysander took delight in making those involved pay the consequences. Further, seeing the hope and relief in the eyes of the rescued, well, he was no hero, but moments like that did make him wonder…  
  
Carrying some timber with the bored air of someone in no hurry because they got paid the same either way, he casually scrutinized passers-by for the telltale signal of the traffickers: lavender-colored gloves. Something innocuous that anyone would overlook in the colorful sea of garments that ebbed and flowed in the crowd. Unless, of course, you knew to look for it. In the same way, Lysander and his fellow Rogues went unnoticed, but they all recognized each other no matter their disguise; the eyes and posture of a Rogue spoke of a perilous sort, albeit quietly.  
  
There.  
  
Lysander stepped aside to put down his load, sigh, and rub his shoulder, just another laborer taking a break. This gave him the opportunity to watch where his target went, and a corner of his lips flickered a smile when the large man went into one of the inns. Lysander rubbed his neck and stretched his arms over his head. In moments, a Lalafell sat down next to him, apparently borrowing him for a bit of shade.  
  
“Y’saw one, Lys?” asked the diminutive man, taking a swig from a canteen.  
  
Lysander made an affirmative noise in his throat, staring off at nothing in particular. “He went into the inn directly ahead,” he replied in a low tone.  
  
The other person nodded and looked into his canteen with a sigh. “Damn, dry already, I’ve gone through more water here than I have Ul’dah,” he remarked in a normal voice, and Lysander looked over at him, shrugging with a smile.  
  
“Aye, same here, something about the sun just dries one up. I’m looking forward to a cold ale tonight myself.”  
  
The Lalafell put away his canteen and nodded. “You’ve more patience than I do, I need something to wet my throat now. Safe travels.” He got up and strode to the inn, and Lysander remained where he was, looking for all the world like a worker slacking off while away from his supervisor’s angry glare. In truth, however, he was keeping watch while Underfoot had a look around inside the inn.  
  
After a while, Lysander knew he would have to move so as not to be suspicious, and he stood up to stretch again, hiding a grin when a female Miqo’te seemed to materialize next to him. “Good eye, lad,” she said, for his ears only as she sat and fanned herself, “the poor coves are there alright.”  
  
Lysander didn’t give any obvious sign of acknowledgement, but hummed again in his throat, a sound she heard clearly, and he adjusted his load to pick it up securely again. “We strike tonight?” he murmured, hiding his question behind trying to balance the timber on his shoulder again.  
  
“Yup. Here, at dark.” She continued to fan herself with an inexpensive paper fan that somehow hadn’t dissolved from the humidity or continual spray off of the ocean.  
  
Humming a song to himself, he walked away, apparently to wherever he was supposed to go, but he instead returned to the place he had picked up the wood in the first place, put it back, and vanished. Nobody noticed his presence, although the person in charge of the supplies there was now perplexed, as he had just come up short several pieces of lumber, and upon recounting everything, the numbers matched up correctly. He had clearly been in the sun too long, it was time to hit the pub for a drink…  
  
The shadows grew both long and dangerous, slowly being populated with dagger-wielding sorts that managed to avoid being noticed by everybody. Except for each other, of course. The same Miqo’te appeared again next to him, and he couldn't hide a smile; nobody was as good as V’Kebbe at being hidden, and he hoped to study from her and learn it as well.  
  
“Right then,” said Jacke, the next to appear from nowhere, “y’know yer marks, an’ y’know where t’ take the coves.”  
  
Oh Twelve, Lysander was usually confident and suave, but the guild leader always left him feeling fluttery. One day he would finally have the courage to say something, but for now, they were on a mission. Save those thoughts for later. Lysander realized that he was smiling in a rather silly, wistful manner, and was glad for the darkness that hid it. That accent, the things it did for him…  
  
Silently, they entered the inn, attracting no notice as they filtered toward the rooms to which they had been assigned. The Yellowjackets were aware of the operation but not the details, even though they were operating jointly; they would round up and arrest the slavers once their prisoners had been moved to safety. Lysander strode with his rolling dancer’s walk to his room, counting in his mind the time that they would all at once free the potential slaves.  
  
Lysander paused at the door, listening carefully. Underfoot and another had carefully spiked the drinks of the traffickers all afternoon, and by now they were surely asleep from it. There was no sound. Good. The door opened and closed, but its occupants didn’t notice. He stepped aside and looked around, taking in everything and looking for the guard.  
  
He wasn’t there…  
  
Frowning, Lysander swept the room with a much more careful gaze, and saw that it was only inhabited by the prisoners. This could be bad; the guard could have passed out elsewhere, but he could also be quite awake and on his way. The clock in his head was ticking down, and he had no time to waste. Going to the family huddled together in fear, he made enough noise to get their attention but not startle.  
  
“It’s okay,” he reassured softly, “I’m here to help. I and the others are here to rescue you. We’re all leaving in another minute.”  
  
He gave them a warm, soft smile, the one he always used when trying to convince others of something. They weren’t swayed yet, and watched him warily.  
  
“How do I know you’re telling the truth?” the man asked, pushing his wife and children behind him, “we’ve been punished already for trying to run before.”  
  
Lysander knew it wouldn't be easy, but also not hard. With his usual charm, a knife leapt into his fingers with a flick of his wrist, then disappeared just as quickly with another. “That’s because you didn't have me, mate. I’ll keep you all safe. I promise.”  
  
This somehow convinced them, and they got to their feet as Lysander went to and opened the door. The way was clear, and he saw other Rogues doing the same. Perfect, the mission was going well. He beckoned to them and led the way out through a back door, which saw little other traffic and was away from prying eyes. The groups were staggered in order to avoid suspicion and notice, and Lysander’s was one of the last. He led them through the mostly-empty and moonlit streets to the dock with the ship that would carry them to Limsa, and therefore safety.  
  
They were nearly there when a loud voice shattered the silence, and Lysander spun around to see a very angry Roegadyn running at them, a large battleaxe held in lavender-colored gloves.  
  
Shit.  
  
“Leg it!” Lysander shouted to the family behind him, “follow them and get to the ship with the others, I’ll hold him off!” He sprinted off without waiting for an acknowledgement or further thought, other than an inner voice yelling at himself that he wasn’t a damn hero. Drawing a throwing knife from the many that were hidden about himself, he threw without accuracy, hoping to distract but not expecting to do much.  
  
To both of their surprise, the knife lodged firmly into the Roe’s thigh, slowing him, but making him angrier.  
  
_Shit_.  
  
Tapping into skills both old and new, Lysander danced, moving around and harrying his opponent, trying to find an opening while dodging that giant axe. He had to be lucky several times, but the other man had to be lucky only once. As always, his mind was empty of thought when he danced like this, and his inner monologue no longer scolded him, as it had now become a sustained scream of panic.  
  
His daggers bit and cut, and though they drew blood his opponent only got angrier. Eventually, the marauder got lucky and Lysander stumbled. As he tried to regain his footing, the Roe brought his axe down in a powerful arc. Reacting quickly, Lysander raised both daggers to block the attack, realizing as he did so how futile it was.  
  
His luck hadn’t completely run out, though, as the axe bounced off of the smaller blades, shattering one outright and chipping the other. This knocked Lysander off-balance again, and his arms were almost numbed from the strike. The Roe saw his opening and attacked again, slicing recklessly, throwing his weight into it.  
  
_Now_  his luck had completely run out. He gasped even as his breath seized in his throat as the weapon cut him open. Pain shot through him, and he suddenly felt himself go cold. Oh gods, this was it… He wasn’t going to die just yet, though, he gambled one last time, lunging forward to plunge both daggers (technically, one and a half) into his assailant’s throat, embedding them all the way to the hilt.  
  
Tasting blood as the world spun around him, he fell backward and barely felt himself hit the ground. Pain and shock overwhelmed his senses, and the darkness in which he had earlier hidden claimed him.  
  
…  
  
Fuzzy. Soft. Warm…  
  
Lysander twitched as he awoke, feeling weak and dizzy. Something familiar was pressed against his cheek, purring with contentment. Xander…  
  
As he opened his eyes and looked around, waiting for his vision to clear, two figures slowly resolved themselves, but it was their voices that reached him with clarity first, and one of them the one that did such good and bad things to him.  
  
“L’sander, yer finally awake! I knew a perilous cove like ye wouldn't be knocked down fer long.” Lysander’s vision had cleared enough for him to see the guild leader, and his smile. Oh Twelve, he was glad that he was lying down because his body couldn't support him any longer now. He tried to say something, but realized that there was nothing that he could say that wasn’t stupid. Still, he had nearly died, hadn’t he, and he would have done so without telling Jacke what he really felt.  
  
V’Kebbe hopped to her feet from the chair upon which she had been sitting, calling over her shoulder that she was going to fetch the doctor. Yes! Perfect! It was just the two of them, he could finally say it, what he ached to tell him…  
  
He tried to work moisture back into his mouth as Jacke chuckled and folded his arms across his chest. “You slept four days, we were worried you’d not wake.” He nodded to the furry animal on the pillow. “Yer little brother’s not left yer side, either. You’ve a good family here.”  
  
Lysander felt his cheeks grow hot, feeling a rush of delighted warmth at Jacke’s words. True, he had said “we,” so it wasn't just him, but it meant that he had cared as well, and this gave him hope. Jacke gestured at something on the table next to the bed, and Lysander saw his daggers, or, rather, what was left of them.  
  
“Fear not, me lad, we’ll have stabbers in yer fambles again soon enough. New ones, as while those saved yer life they’ve served their purpose.” Lysander forgot how to breathe for a moment when Jacke took his hand. That warm, gentle touch was just as he’d imagined but never expected to experience. “Though with how carved up ye got that may be a while,” he observed, noticing the bandaged cuts on Lysander's fingers from where the broken shards of his daggers had scraped him.  
  
He was right there, right there! All he had to do was say something, it was just the two of them. Jacke was holding his hand, he just had to squeeze back or kiss it or, or… He would never have this chance again, he had to...  
  
Smiling weakly, Lysander nodded. He couldn't do it…  
  
Jacke returned the smile and patted his shoulder. “Rest well, me dimber mort, ye’ll be skulking in tha’ darkmans again soon enough.”  
  
As he left Lysander leaned back into the pillow and blinked back tears. Damn,  _damn_! Stupid  _coward_! He had been there, they had been alone, Jacke had been holding his hand, all he had to do was tell him what he felt. Cursing himself silently, Lysander clenched a fist and gritted his teeth. Fool! Coward!  
  
...But then, he knew all that already. He wasn’t brave, he wasn’t a hero. Besides, Jacke deserved better anyway...

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> //If for whatever reason you think I'm interesting, I am the [Random Squirrel](http://randomsquirrel.tumblr.com) on Tumblr. Contains reblogs of things I think are interesting and random acts of shitposting.//


	7. Prologue 07: A Healing Flame

“Just _tell_ him already, you doofus.”

Lysander glared over at the other rouge for her unneeded advice, and she only grinned in reply, her tongue sticking out from between her teeth as she smirked at him.  “You know I can’t,” he growled, shifting his shoulders a little for better comfort, “he’s probably not interested and…he deserves better than me anyway- OW!”  He glared at her again, as she had firmly knuckle-tapped him atop the head, putting her hands on her hips, glaring right back.

“Stuff it, Lys, either tell him, or get over him and quit moping.  Yeah, he’s hot, and he knows it, we all know it.  So just tell him already, it’s better than watching you pine over him like this.”

“You don’t _have_ to be here, Risu,” Lysander huffed, poking at the bandage around his middle.  The other rogue shifted her position to fold her arms across her chest and give him a look of “oh really?”

“You’re just grumpy ‘cause you’re stuck in bed another week while that heals.”

“I’m grumpy for a lot of reasons, thank you very much.  I never asked for an older sibling.”

“And you’ve got it anyway!  Lucky you!  I’m just spiffy like that,” she giggled, striding away to go fill a cup of tea for him.

He sighed and shook his head as he watched her work; the tall, blonde, Hyur female had been in the guild for quite some time, and had taken on the unofficial role of older sister to pretty much everyone, regardless of their age or skill.  Something about her put him in mind of, well, him, and he idly wondered if she might be a distant cousin.  It was possible, he didn’t know if he had any other family, and after the Calamity, it was likely that any records had been lost, but he had no information to back it up as she never talked of her past.  It didn’t really matter, he was the last of his line and that was that.

“Don’t you have anything better to do?” he asked, not rudely, just genuinely curious.  She returned with a full cup of hot tea and helped him sit up, pulling him forward and adjusting the pillows to support him, as the injury that he bore precluded him from doing so on his own.  Smiling warmly, she pressed the cup into both of his hands.

“No, I don’t, actually.  Things’re quiet after that last mission, so I’ve got some downtime.  Seriously, you’re the talk of the guild right now, and other places.  You could have run, but you still chose to fight, and even when he damn near killed you, you found the strength to take him down with you.  Damn, Lys, you are a scary man.  …We actually thought we’d lost you for a little while.”  She folded her arms across her chest and gave him a serious look.  “Jacke was worried, too.  He didn’t show it, but I’ve a good eye for that in people.  Just saying…”

Lysander paused partway though his drink and stared into it, swirling the liquid thoughtfully.  “…He was?”

“Yeah.  He’s a good man.”

“…He is…”  There was an awkward silence as he finished the drink and handed back the empty cup.  She took it wordlessly and set it aside, then prodded his bandages.

“Looks like those need changing.  Let’s get you in a bath, I’ll help you get cleaned up and then the medic can have a look at it and put on a fresh dressing.”  It had been a couple of days since he had awoken, and he definitely felt the urge to get clean as soon as possible.

Nodding, Lysander gritted his teeth against the pain of movement as she supported him through most of it.  He took a moment to catch his breath as his legs swung over the edge of the bed, and then nodded again for her to help him to his feet, an arm over her shoulders as she put an arm around his waist, guiding him over to the bath.  There was nothing to remove save for the bandages, as he’d been completely undressed to deal with his wounds, but he found no embarrassment in being nude around her.  Likewise, she didn’t seem to care either, not even giving him lecherous or leering looks like he had expected, she just examined him professionally, checking his injuries and health.

“Right, let’s get you in there.  I’ve got you, just rest your weight on me.”  She continued to take his weight as he eased himself into the hot water, and he gasped with relief and satisfaction at the tingle it produced on his skin.  Sitting on the edge, just in the water but not submerged, he assisted Risu with removing the stained bandages, trying not to re-open the wound that had finally closed.  He stared at it once it was revealed, suddenly feeling dizzy.  “Whoa!  Lys!  You okay?” she asked, grabbing him by the shoulders.

“…Yeah, I…  I just…  Shit, how am I still alive?!”  He continued to stare at the crescent-shaped cut that ran from the bottom of his sternum all the way across to the top of his right hip.  It was as wide as his thumb and wasn’t ragged, indicating a fast, clean cut that thankfully hadn’t cut too deeply.  The fight came back to him in a flash, and he recalled the strike that had felled him, producing another wave of dizziness that left him a bit limp.  Barely in time, Risu caught and supported him while he collected himself, as he pressed a hand to his forehead, staring off at nothing.  “I…  I should be dead, mate, gods, no wonder I feel wiped out.”

“You sorta were for a minute or two.  We were able to slap a fast heal on you to keep you from bleeding out any further, but…”  She shook her head and took a look for herself at his injury.  “Not going to lie, I thought we’d lost you, we all did.”

She had to move quickly again to catch him, as the dizziness took him a second time and he nearly went completely into the water.  “Twelve, I…don’t remember anything after my daggers broke, only that I had one last surge of anger and, I don’t know, righteousness?  I just couldn’t die and have him live to hurt others…”

Risu had grabbed a towel and was very carefully cleaning the wound, ensuring that there was nothing that could cause infection or irritation later, but also trying not to open it back up again.  She handed him another one, which he dipped into the water and then lathered with soap.  They took their time, as like she had said, there was nothing to occupy them anyway, this wasn’t something that should be rushed, and anyroad, he was enjoying it.  He knew he’d be trapped in that bed for at least another week, so he was determined to enjoy every moment he could out of it.

Eventually he got to work on his hair, but Risu swatted his hands away to take care of it herself.  “Relax, I’ve got this.  No joke, I’ve kinda wanted to play with your hair for ages, it’s just so _nice_.  Like, braid it or something.  …You okay?”  She paused in her work when he twitched at her remark.

“…It was mother’s color.  And I’ve not worn it braided in a long time.  We both wore it the same…”

Wrinkling her nose, Risu was about to ask him to clarify, when the pieces suddenly assembled into a rather large and sad picture.  “…Oh.  Well, is there anything you _would_ like me to do?  Or just wash and brush it out?”

“Just that, please,” he replied, suddenly downcast.  Risu nodded and considered inquiring further, but immediately discarded the idea.  She didn’t talk much about her history, either, and from what she’d gathered from what he _had_ said, she wasn’t the least bit surprised.  Once again silence took over, but it was thoughtful and almost meditative, not sullen or awkward.

After some time, Risu nodded again, pulling the brush neatly through his hair without resistance.  She tied his hair back with the usual bit of ribbon he used (it was getting old and a bit tattered, he really needed to replace it!) and stood up, grabbing a towel.  “Here, dry yourself as best you can, I’ll grab the medic and we can get you bandaged up again before we stuff you back in bed.”

“Ta, luv,” he replied, still sounding a little distant and tired.  He wasn’t sure how long she was gone, but it wasn’t terribly so, and the medic had apparently been waiting for them to finish, as the large Roegadyn woman had a bag full of supplies over her shoulder as she strode toward him.

“Well, you appear to be healing well,” she commented, carefully poking at a few areas around his wound, “and you aren’t in any pain?  Good, we just need to make sure that you eat properly and get plenty of fluids to replace what you lost.  Very well, Risu, attend me.”

Yet again he wasn’t bothered by being the only one unclothed around others, even two females, but he was comfortable with his own body, and he’d been a courtesan for a few years.  It was just a state of being that he was in sometimes.  And further, even if he _did_ have any physical interest in either of them, good luck getting it up right now!  For now, he tried to relax and comply with instructions as medicines were applied, and then fresh dressings.

One final inspection of her work and the medic nodded.  “Good, those should hold for a few more days, just keep them dry and clean, we’ll remove them the next time you bathe and see how you progress from there.  In the meantime, let’s get you back to bed, young man.”

He would normally be annoyed at being called that, as he _was_ in his mid-twenties, but he didn’t have the energy to be cheeky in return.  The medic assisted him to his feet and supported him the way that Risu had, and he looked about for the other Rogue, as she had suddenly gone missing.  Ah, there she was, she had replaced the sheets.  It made no sense to get clean only to return to dirty bedding.

“Um, this is going to be a tad difficult,” he said, realizing how much effort it would be to get back into bed, “help me sit down and I can-  Gah!”  Blushing the color of his hair, he grabbed the medic’s shoulders for support as she outright picked him up and put him back.  “I-  That-!”  He huffed a little and looked away, his cheeks still crimson.  “That wasn’t necessary, I could have done that.”

“And you’d have taken all day, boy,” the medic laughed, fists on her hips, “which I don’t have.  I’ve got other patients to whom I must attend and I don’t have the time to play about with appeasing your ego.  Just be glad that you’re not hurt worse than you are and that you have the mobility that you do.”

Sighing, Lysander nodded and got comfortable as Risu pulled the sheets back over him.  “I…just hate feeling useless.  I don’t like people having to take care of me.”

“Stuff it, Lys,” Risu giggled, “you risked your life to save others, you’ve earned a bit of pampering and doting.  Pass out a few, I’m going to pop down to the Bismarck and get you something to eat.  Oh shut _up_ ,” she laughed when she saw him beginning to protest, “not many of us at the guild can cook, and it’s just easier to get some decent carry-out from there.  B’sides, like we both said, you earned it, and you need something decent to replace what you lost.  Back in a bit!”

Grinning, she jogged out the door, followed by the medic, who gave him a stern but friendly look and a reminder to rest and take it easy.  Xander, who had disappeared for reasons unknown (likely food of his own) returned and curled up on the pillow next to him, licking his nose before settling down and purring.  The presence of his pet had a rather somnambulant effect on him, and he was asleep in only a couple of minutes.

Later that week, the day after his second bath and changing of his bandages again, Lysander had cajoled Risu into supplying him with his trousers so he could at least try to get about on his own.  He promised to not to go too far, but it didn’t bother him to sit up anymore, and he needed to stretch his legs.  Already knowing the answer, he inquired about his shirt, and felt that sickening wave of dizziness again when he saw just how much of it was covered in blood (all of it his!), as well as the gigantic rip that had nearly torn the garment in two.  They were getting him a replacement, it was the least they could do, but his trousers had survived, and they’d succeeded in getting the blood off of _those_.

With a hand on the wall to steady himself, Lysander walked slowly, already feeling better for being able to be up and about.  He hated being bedridden and useless.  Still, this was more exhausting than he had expected.  Sighing with irritation, he turned around to go back the way he came and find a chair to sit in, but the moment his hand left the wall and he was supporting his own weight, the dizziness crashed into him, and the room spun without warning, the floor coming up quickly to meet him.  Instinctively, he went limp, knowing that trying to catch himself would be folly, but was surprised to _not_ hit the ground.

“I’ve got ye, L’sander. Ye nearly took a hell of a fall.”  Lysander felt his pulse skip, throat tighten, and cheeks grow hot.  Jacke!  “Are ye alright?  Can ye stand?”  Unsteadily, Lysander looked up into those bright blue eyes and completely forgot how to speak.  Oh Twelve, they had granted him a gift, a second chance, he was right there, he was in Jacke’s arms and all he had to do was say something or kiss him or, or, just something!  _Anything!_

Again, all Lysander could do was weakly nod, and he fought back embarrassed yet grateful tears as he leaned on the guild leader for support.  Arms around Jacke’s neck, he tried not to completely collapse into him while he caught his breath and got his feet back under him.  He could smell his cologne and feel his heart beat, his hands were warm and strong around him...  What he wouldn’t give for this moment to never end.

“I’m…  I can…  Thanks…” he finally managed, unable to look directly at him any longer.

Jacke adjusted his grip to put an arm around Lysander’s waist and pull his arm across his shoulders, holding his wrist.  “I’ve got ye, L’sander, c’mon, let’s get you back, it’s admirable ta try ta get up and about, but you’ve earned yer rest.”

Lysander felt dizzy again, almost unable to believe his luck.  He still had a chance to say something, but feeling Jacke’s hands on his bare skin like that, having him so close, his mind was in a tangle, and he felt a warm rush of pleasure at the same time a cold stab of fear lanced through his veins.  What if Jacke said no?  If he pushed him away and distanced himself after Lysander had opened up his heart like that?  By the time they got back to the bed Lysander had almost completely sagged, already defeated.

Risu saw them approach and crossed the room in only a few strides.  “Lys!  Are you hurt?” she asked, looping his other arm across her own shoulders.  He flicked a sad glance at Jacke, which the other man didn’t notice, but Risu did, and she gave him a look of understanding.  Together they got him back to his bed and into it, and he sighed with exhaustion as he flopped back against the pillow.

“…Thanks.  And sorry, for being a bother.”

“Yer not a bother, L’sander,” Jacke grinned, “yer a bene sort what just needs ta rest a bit.  But if you rip yerself open the medic’ll mill you herself!”

Nodding, Lysander bit his lip to hold back tears as Risu pulled the sheet back over him and regarded Jacke with a curious look.  “What’s up?  Didn’t expect to catch you over here, something happen?”

“A bit twofold,” Jacke replied, shifting his weight to one leg as he nodded to Risu, “came ta check on tha poor bedridden lad, and there’s been another bauble cloyed what needs biting back.  Yer one of our best at skulking, Risu, need ta send ye and V’Kebbe out to ta whiddle what more ye can.”

Squeezing Lysander’s hand, Risu gave the “bedridden lad” a smile.  “I’ll get on with that, back later, you rest, okay?”

Once more, one last chance, just a few precious seconds alone!  Jacke watched Risu leave and nearly followed, but he paused when Lysander reached out and grabbed his wrist.  Once more again, that blue stare was too much for him, and he again lost his resolve.  Twice he tried to say something, but couldn’t find the right words, and let go.  “I…  Thank you.”

“Sleep, me dimber damber,” Jacke chuckled, “we’ll have stabbers back in yer fambles soon enough.”

_It isn’t daggers that I want in my fingers, it’s the touch of your hands, to caress your face and run them through your hair, making you give me that smile that always makes me so weak in the knees…  But I can’t tell you.  I’m not brave enough, because I’m terrified that you’ll reject me, and that’s worse than silently staying by your side.  And anyroad, I know that you deserve better than me…_

He sighed again and felt himself start to drift off, but relaxed a little when Xander curled up on his chest, purring into his face, a black-and-orange loaf of fuzzy bread.  Scratching his pet’s ears, he fell asleep, dreaming of nothing in particular.

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> //If for whatever reason you think I'm interesting, I am the [Random Squirrel](http://randomsquirrel.tumblr.com) on Tumblr. Contains reblogs of things I think are interesting and random acts of shitposting.//


	8. Prologue 08: A Wistful Flame

Lysander had finally recovered enough to move about on his own, for the most part, but he still was warned to be careful. He heeded this guidance, as while he ached to get out and about, he also felt the ache of healing every time he exerted himself too far. Today was a simple jaunt; downstairs, outside, and onto one of the less-used piers by the Rogues’ Guild. It was sunny out, and warmer than it had been for a while, two things that lifted his spirits immensely. Once outside and in a nice spot, he carefully sat down, spread out a blanket onto the wooden planks that had been polished smooth by years of travelling feet, took off his shirt, and flopped onto his back. Xander had followed him out and curled up on the blanket next to him, tucked into the curve of his waist and purring happily.

Hands folded under his head, he lay there for quite some time until the familiar footfalls of Risu made him smile. “Hey, mate. They still assigning me a sitter?”

“Nah,” she replied, setting something down and flopping next to him as she scratched Xander’s ears, “I figured you could use a nosh and a drink. It’s really nice out today, figured we could share it.” Grinning, he accepted her offer as she accepted his hand, pulling him into a sitting position. “Not quite as warm as your home, I imagine, but closer.”

“And more humid,” he replied, carving off a slice of cheese for himself from the wedge she’d brought, “but I can’t complain at all. It’s been sunny enough lately, but the breeze still had teeth. Probably came straight down from Coerthas. And don’t give me the geographic impossibilities of that,” he huffed, waving the knife at her, “I know the wind and land and sea here. I’m just making a point.”

With a giggle, Risu pulled a loaf of crusty bread from her bag and set it down, rummaging around to pull out two carefully-packed wineglasses, followed by several bottles of wine. “Dear gods this was heavy. Well! Let’s make this a lighter return trip for me, shall we?” Lysander eagerly took her up on this offer as she opened one bottle and poured. “Hey, what _is_ Ul’dah like? I mean _really_ like? I’ve visited a couple of times, but you lived there.”

His face immediately fell as he put the glass to his lips, pulling it away to leave them still dry. “…I’ve…not been back. In a very long time.”

Studying his expression and body language carefully, she rolled some mental dice to see if this was one of those “it hurts but I’d like to talk and get it out of my system” silences, or if it was the “I’d rather not talk about it, please” silences that tended to become awkward ones shortly after. Adding the data of what she knew of him as well as his current mood she pushed ahead, gambling that he wanted to converse.

“Why’d you leave? I mean, if you don’t wanna say anything I completely get it, but I know bugger-all about your past and, well…” She sipped her wine and ripped off the heel of the loaf, chewing thoughtfully. “The few things I know about your history is that apparently your mother was a Weaver and your father part of the Immortal Flames, and that you trained in damn near every form of music and dance that Ul’dah could offer, but other than those few snippets I don’t know a damn thing.”

She took a longer drink, staring off at nothing in particular. “I never wanted to pry, y’know, we’ve all got secrets, and that’s okay. We all have something we wanna hide. But...” Giving him a sad look, she shrugged. “This seems to be eating you up _bad_. Every time your family or Ul’dah comes up you snap shut like a merchant’s coin purse.” Having finished her piece she left him in peace, chewing and drinking quietly, listening to the soft sounds he made as he also ate and drank.

“…It was my fault.”

“…Pardon?”

“That they’re gone now. It’s all my fault.”

Risu gave him a perplexed look but didn’t contradict him. “I… Sorry, sweetie, but I don’t quite follow. Hey, talk to me, sounds like you _really_ need to get this off of your chest.” She topped off both of their glasses and cut off a slice of roast beef from the slab she’d brought. He accepted it gratefully and ate the slice slowly, thinking and ordering his thoughts.

“I… We…” Sighing, he shook his head, sipped his wine, and started again. “I was fifteen. We weren’t rich or anything, but we were doing well enough. Mother was skilled at her craft and made lovely, sturdy garments. Even just simple cotton clothes were made with care and dedication, and she treated every customer with respect and courtesy. Father was a Brass Blade. He could have been part of the city guard, but he opted to be deployed where he could. Partially because it was better money than a guard, but also because he enjoyed leading soldiers.”

Chuckling, Lysander shook his head again, smiling for the first time. “He refused officer commissions so many times. He was a sergeant and that was that. He always laughed that he worked for a living, and nobody was going to pin bars on him!” The smile slipped a little, but it was still warm. “He had some combat experience. I never asked how or why, but he had a rather nasty scar on one cheek, as well as a few others that look like they’d been rather serious. Fortunately, they made him dashing and not disfigured, but I assumed that if it was important he’d tell me. Otherwise, it was none of my business.”

He held out his glass for a refill and took a chunk of bread that she’d ripped free for him. “Mother and I kept the household. We… We would braid each other’s hair in the morning. Hers so it wouldn’t get in the way while she worked, mine so it wouldn’t get in the way while I danced.” The smile was still warm, but a bit sadder, and he bit the corner of his lip to fight back tears. “I was a rubbish cook. Damn near every time I tried to help I’d burn something, or myself, or almost slice myself open. I tried, I really bloody did, but something about it just didn’t click for me. I could manage other household chores and the shopping, so I at least contributed _something_ to the household.”

The smile faded completely and his shoulders drooped. “And then one day mother got sick. Father was deployed out somewhere far, we’d not heard from him in a few days, but we didn’t expect to get word back for another week or two. It wasn’t a concern, it happened now and then. But while it started as something that should have been mild turned into something… I don’t know. I don’t remember. But I couldn’t help her. Azeyma have mercy, I couldn’t help her…”

Putting aside his glass, he pulled his knees to his chest, wrapping his arms around and burying his face in them. Xander sat up and patted his leg with a soft trill as Risu leaned over to put a hand on his shoulder. “Hey, sweetie, it’s okay. Breathe. Take your time. If it hurts too much…”

Lysander shook his head, his shoulders shaking slightly. After a minute he sat up again, sniffing, and reached for his shirt to scrub his eyes with a sleeve. “I… There was nothing I could do. I fetched doctors, and they did what they could, but it was strange and it just… It was so fast, it took her in a week. And…then…” His hands balled into fists as tears streamed down his cheeks. “I got word from the Flames that father had been killed in action. The same day that mother had passed. I didn’t know until the day after and…”

Risu swore softly and put aside her glass, shifting to sit closer and pulling him against her. “Shit, that’s just… That’s bleeding _awful_. No wonder you never wanted to talk about this, or even think about it. Gods have mercy, sweetie, and you were fifteen? No other family?” He shook his head as he buried his face in her shoulder, sobbing quietly. “…Seven hells… I… I’m so sorry, for all of it. For what you went through, for living with it, for talking about it now… I’m sorry for prying, I shouldn’t have.”

“No.” He shook his head again and pulled away a little, sniffing. “It’s okay. I… I should have said something sooner, to someone, but I…”

“You didn’t know who you could trust?” He nodded and she pulled him into a hug again, kissing the top of his head. “It’s okay. For what it’s worth, thank you. That you trust me with this, to let me see you cry and be vulnerable, that means a lot. I just wish I could help, to do or say or…”

“Listening. That means more than _you_ know.” Sniffing again, he sat up and fished in his pocket for a handkerchief, wiping his eyes and blowing his nose. He smiled as Xander hopped into the gap between his knees as he sat cross-legged, and he gave his little brother scritchies between the shoulders. “I ran away. There was nothing else I could do. They’re both gone because…because of me. If I had real skills, something that could be used to make proper money, father wouldn’t have gone off on those deployments like he did, and he’d have been there for her. Maybe…maybe then one or both of them…”

It took no small amount of self-control not to burst into tears again, but Risu politely busied herself with refilling their glasses and cutting off more meat and cheese until he’d found his center again. With a mumbled “thanks” he accepted both glass and snack, and consumed them silently. They shared both food and quiet for a few minutes, underscored by the gentle purring of a happy coeurl kitten, who had draped himself halfway over Lysander’s thigh and looked immensely pleased about it.

“I just…” he began, and Risu remained silent, giving him the space and time to think. “I just wish I… There was more I could have done. Something. _Anything_. But I didn’t. I don’t deserve love. I barely deserve kindness. And whenever I do return to the Lifestream it’s not like it’ll matter. Not like _I_ matter.”

“Utter shite,” Risu finally commented, taking a large gulp of wine, “that last bit, anyroad. You _do_ deserve love and you _do_ sodding matter. Despite what you may think, and I’ve no damn idea what that is right now, you have a home here and people that care about you. Seven hells, sweetie, look at that!” She pointed at his scar and gave him a fierce glare. “How did you get that?”

“I’m an idiot and picked a fight I couldn’t- OW!” He winced and rubbed the top of his head where she had rapped him with her knuckles.

“Total aldgoat shite! You got that because you care enough about other people, _complete bloody strangers_ , that you’ll put yourself in harm’s way rather than let them be subjected to slavery and misery. I bloody friggin’ _saw_ it! That bastard came at you all and you ran right back at him, ready to wreck him like a ship in a storm on the rocks. Reckless? Yes! Brave? Absolutely yes!” She puffed out her cheeks and folded her arms across her chest. “And you know what? I got to you just as you hit the ground. You were _smiling_. He may have gotten you, but damn if you didn’t take that hells-spawned son of a morbol with you.”

Her expression softened and she sagged a little, giving him a look of sympathy. “I get you, sweetie. I understand why you think like you do, but…” Exhaling deeply, she shook her head and managed a small smile. “Will you trust and believe me that you do matter to people after all? That the things you have done have lasting meaning and have made a change for the better? You often downplay your time as a courtesan, and I get that, too, but you weren’t just any dockside whore for rent, you entertained clients. You filled a need that nobody else could, and you did it with style, grace, and elegance. Damn it, Lys, I’m jealous!” Pursing her lips, she thought about that statement for a moment. “Well, jealous of the elegance and stuff, not so much some of the other things. Not my thing, y’know?”

It took him a moment to get her drift, but he nodded and smiled as well. “Ah, you seek friendships, not relationships.”

Leaning back on her hands, her grin returned as she stretched her legs out in front of her. “Yeah. Never felt that tug of romance or infatuation or what have you. I like friends, and yeah, I like hugs and stuff, but I’ve never felt the urge to go farther.” She shrugged off-handedly. “Not my thing. But if you like it then I’m happy that you’ve found something you like and someone you can share it with.”

With a dignified sniff, Lysander reached for his wineglass, smirking into it as he gave her a wry glance. “Well, that’s a good thing, because I consider you a sister, and were you to make advances upon me I’d have to turn you down, and I do so hate to see you disappointed.”

Risu laughed heartily and playfully shoved him, then reached for her own glass. “You are _such_ an ass! But I’m glad to see you smiling again. Feeling better?”

He blew out a long sigh, watching the waves for a minute, then nodded. “Yeah, I do. Thanks.”

“Anytime, ‘little brother.’”

They sat in comfortable silence until the food and wine were gone, enjoying the sun and wind and waves until there was too little of the first and too much of the second. Gathering up the supplies from their impromptu picnic, they went back inside and changed the salves and bandages on his wounds. Shortly after that he discarded his clothes in a messy heap on the floor and curled up in bed. _His_ bed, finally! He hugged a pillow to his chest as he got comfortable, feeling Xander nestle in his usual spot against him somewhere, and allowed himself a dejected sigh. He didn’t deserve love or companionship, he knew that. He wasn’t good enough for anyone, especially not someone like Jacke. That didn’t make the ache hurt any less. Rather, it hurt more. Perhaps it _would_ be better if he vanished after all, whether onto the road once more or permanently into the Lifestream…

Humming his mother’s lullaby softly to himself, he fought another wave of tears. He’d never shared that song with anyone else. Would it die with him? Something like that should at least survive him. He should teach it to Risu, so at least someone would remember it, even if he wasn’t worth remembering. Sleep took its time in taking him, but mercifully it finally did, and he dreamt of better times; of smiles and laughter he’d not seen or heard in half of a lifetime, and upon waking, cried for a good ten minutes when he realized that it had all been nothing more than a dream.

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> //If for whatever reason you think I'm interesting, I am the [Random Squirrel](http://randomsquirrel.tumblr.com) on Tumblr. Contains reblogs of things I think are interesting and random acts of shitposting.//


	9. Prologue 09: A New Flame

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> //The final chapter in the prologues! From here on out the "live" stories take place, where the actual RP has taken place. I'll get to those as I organize THOSE notes, and updates should happen much faster from now on. Thanks for reading!//

Delicate fingers traced up Lysander’s back, and he shivered pleasantly, returning it with both hands as he nibbled Jacke’s neck. He gasped softly as it was his turn to be nibbled, going up and along his ear. Pulling away, he cupped the other man’s face with a gentle hand, leaning forward to-

_Pap._

Lysander blinked, wondering what the-

_Pap pap._

He blinked again, his vision clearing, and it resolved into Xander sitting on his chest, a fuzzy paw being pulled back after patting his cheek. With a happy trill, he patted Lysander’s nose and padded over to the side of the bed, tail held high.

“…What in the… I was just…” It took a few more seconds for everything to piece together, and then he shot Xander a very grumpy look. “I was about to snog him, you furry little shite!” Without malice or heat, he threw a small pillow in Xander’s direction, which was easily dodged and then swatted for good measure. Sighing deeply, Lysander flopped back against the remaining pillows and put an arm over his eyes. The bed shifted a little as Xander jumped up, walked over again, and prodded his ear, chirping with hungry petulance. “Push off,” Lysander huffed, shoving his pet off of the bed.

Xander composure groomed himself as Lysander sat up again, then danced in place as the Hyur got up and staggered to the closet for clean trousers. A clean shirt followed, and he left it at that, his hair loose and disheveled as he stumbled out of the room, looking for food for Xander and coffee for himself. Some fresh fish (carefully deboned!) was placed on a plate for Xander, and he rumbled with happiness as he ate messily. Lysander managed to figure out a mug, coffee, and cream without making a mess, yawned broadly, and sat down heavily at a table.

The guild was active at all hours, technically, though at this point in the morning there was less “activity” and more “just waking up or ready to go to sleep” than anything else. Chin in his hand and elbow on the table, Lysander stared off at nothing while he tried to get at least two brain cells to connect, idly listening to Xander gobble down his breakfast. He felt a hand pat him on the shoulder as he picked up his coffee. Ah, he thought that he had seen Risu come down.

“G’morning, luv,” he mumbled, taking a sip of his drink.

“G’mornin’, dear,” an amused voice replied, and Lysander choked on his drink, somehow not spilling anything on his shirt. (Seriously, why did he still wear white shirts?) There was polite laughter, and he turned to meet those bright blue eyes that always did such good and bad things to him. The guildmaster folded his arms across his chest and grinned at Lysander, chuckling again as a blush connected both ears.  “Well, looks like ye don’t need the coffee anymore now. Expectin’ someone else, were ye?”

“Ah…yeah… I… Sorry! I didn’t mean to, erm, that is, not that you would…” Lysander got up to get a towel, ostensibly to clean up the spill, but in truth it was so he wouldn’t make an even bigger fool of himself.

_You daft muppet. Complete and utter pillock. Always making a damn fool of yourself in front of him. All it takes is a smile and you’re tongue-tied and useless. Get yourself together, he’d never be interested in you._

Berating himself silently, he almost missed Jacke’s commentary as the green-clad Hyur observed Xander licking the plate clean. “Cor, there’s no alarm better than a cat’s stomach, is there?” Laughing again, he shrugged. “Though it’s goin’ to be right interestin’ when he gets bigger, ye might find yerself zapped awake.”

Lysander paused in wiping the table to watch Xander wash his face, licking a paw and drawing it delicately and firmly over his face and ears. Sighing, Lysander put a hand on the back of his chair, resting his weight on it. “Yeah, I’ve been thinking about that. He’s small and cute now, but I’ve seen full-grown ones. Even if he ends up on the small side he’s still going to be sodding huge, and I don’t know what I’ll do. Some days I wonder if it was best for him that I took him with me.”

“Possibly, but you did say that he pitched a bit of a fit when you tried to leave, didn’t he?” a new voice chimed in. Lysander smiled as Risu strolled over, a mug of coffee in one hand as she grabbed the now-damp towel and flicked it into the sink across the room with remarkable skill. “And I’d say it says good things about your character that not only did you take him in out of the goodness of your heart, but you’re concerned about his future, rather than just selling or dropping him off when he gets to be a nuisance.”

“If I was going to get rid of him for being a nuisance he’d have been gone long ago,” Lysander chuckled, shaking his head as he sat down, “but I guess you’re right. Still… I don’t know, I can’t quite keep him here, but…”

Jacke shrugged and stretched, and Lysander couldn’t help himself watching the action with great interest. “The important thing is that ye plan to do somethin’ about it. Ye don’t have a plan yet, but that doesn’t mean ye won’t. Right, off ta go deal with business. Have a good day, _dear_ ,” he chuckled, and Lysander felt his face grow hot again.

Risu giggled at this, then grunted as Xander hopped into her lap. “Looks like I missed something.”

“Um… I…thought he was you.”

Risu was surprisingly observant, and put together the conversation as well as the damp towel and giggled again. “Aww, you called him ‘luv,’ didn’t you? Looks like he took it okay.”

For the third time Lysander blushed, this time with a glare added to it. “He deserves better. I _can’t_ tell him. …Anyroad, it would be awkward, the guild master and one of his subordinates? That would create too much gossip and problems outside that I don’t wanna cause. I… I just need to keep it all to myself.”

“…What if you weren’t a Rogue?”

The question was honest and curious, making Lysander consider it for a moment rather than dismiss it out of hand. “I’ve thought of that, but I rather like what I’m doing, and besides, what will I do if I leave? I’ve got no skills outside of the bedroom or off the battlefield. I just… I just don’t know…”

Unable to add anything useful, Risu patted his shoulder supportively and sipped her coffee, petting Xander. Lysander drank what was left of his and got up for a second cup. What _would_ he do?

A while later he was strolling along the docks in Limsa Lominsa, properly dressed, hair brushed and tied back, and looking presentable. He felt much better, too. He could get around without problems now, and no longer needed the bandages. Maybe he could start earning his keep again, but in another day or two. These jaunts around the city still left him a little tired, but he was getting his strength back. Xander padded along at his heels, sniffing everything and trying to play with anything smaller than himself. Then something caught the Hyur's interest and he made a sharp turn down one of the piers.

A very large ship with enormous, crimson-red sails was docked, but something about the design was odd. As he got closer he realized that it was in fact a hybrid sailing and airship. Not an engineer himself, he wasn’t sure how that worked, but he still appreciated skill and the sort of things it took to make such devices, so he walked alongside it, examining it with great interest. Whoever owned it was definitely well-off. Likely a merchant.

His Rogue senses prickled and he glanced up, hissing through his teeth to see Xander trotting up the gangplank to the ship’s deck. Apparently Lysander wasn’t the only one interested in this curious conveyance. Running up the plank, he groaned as he saw the dark tail disappear into the hold.

_Damn it, cat!_

Using that strange Rogue trick of making one’s self not be noticed, he followed his pet, trying to dart forward to grab him, but unable to do so without breaking his stealth. This must have been a delightful game for Xander, as he kept hopping just out of reach each time, but never so much that he’d lose his companion.  They went further into the ship and Lysander’s pulse crept higher. They’d not seen anyone yet, but his luck wouldn’t hold out forever.

That luck held long enough for Xander to enter a galley and pause, sniffing the air, and this gave Lysander the opening he needed to lunge and pick up the errant coeurl. “You little _shit_. C’mon, let’s get out of here before someone finds us.”

“Stowaways, are you?” someone asked, and Lysander’s blood ran cold.

_SHIT._

He spun on his heel and found his exit blocked by a red-haired Seeker, a bit shorter than himself and dressed as a corsair, with numerous tattoos and piercings, somewhat tattered ears, and an eyepatch that did not look merely decorative. He put Lysander in mind of an alley tomcat that had been in countless fights and not lost any of them.

“It’s his fault,” Lysander replied, holding up Xander for emphasis, then immediately felt extremely stupid for it. Shit, he was going to be in trouble with so many people for this.

Interestingly enough, this response seemed to give the other man pause, and he studied both Hyur and cat with one very green eye before sighing and shaking his head. “Another special one,” he chuckled, then made a “follow me” gesture. “You hungry?”

It took Lysander a couple of seconds to realize that not only was he _not_ in trouble, but being offered a meal, and he switched gears from “panic” to “polite.” “Ah, yes, I am. He probably is, too, and terribly sorry about this.” He followed along, keeping a firm grip on the spotted nuisance, who reached out to try to play with the very long braid that swung as the Seeker walked. “We were out for a walk, saw the ship, and I got a bit closer for a good look, but apparently he wanted a full tour. Again, my apologies,  I was trying to get him and get out without a fuss.”

His explanation faded as they entered a different galley, this one larger than the first, already occupied by others; a female Xaela, and two children of less than ten summers, but strangely, they appeared to be both Miqo’te _and_ Xaela. With a quick glance between her and his escort, Lysander assumed that they must be married, and these children theirs. He held his tongue, though, putting Xander down and going to wash his hands as directed.

He was greeted warmly by the dark-haired female, introducing herself as “Belle,” and asking if Dominic had brought him in to help. “Dominic? Oh, him. Ah, bit of a story…” He related his tale quickly, earning a polite chuckle, and took his turn to listen as she guided him in helping prepare some fish for sushi. This was completely new to him, as his diet in Ul’dah growing up never included fish or raw things, owing to seafood rarely surviving the trip through the desert, and that uncooked foods in such an environment were often terribly unsafe.  Claws in his thigh made him stifle a yelp, and he glared at Xander, who gave him a very large-eyed, whiskers-forward look. “Push off a bit, I’ll get you some when we’re finished.” Xander huffed at him and followed him continually all through the preparation process.

When they were done, Lysander helped bring the sliced fish to the table and found it occupied by a violet-haired Keeper. She flashed him a bright smile and waved. “Hi! I’m Lelerue! Are you a new addition to the crew?”

“Ah, I don’t think so, I got here by accident. My pet got away from me.”

She looked down and squee’d with delight. “Oh! He’s so cute! What’s his name?”

Feeling relieved, Lysander took a seat next to her as Dominic and Belle brought the rice and tea over, as Lelerue had already set the table. “That’s Xander. I usually go by ‘Lys,’ and since he needed an older brother, I gave him the half of my name I don’t use.”

Cooing at the spotted animal, she took a small plate and put a piece of the sliced fish on it for him. Xander erupted in a rumbling purr as he hunkered down to eat, not minding his ears being scratched. With a bit of help Lysander figured out how to assemble his own meal, as apparently this was a sort of “do it yourself” family thing. Despite not having grown up with such a thing, and not eaten much fish even though he’d been in Limsa for so long, he found this to be a very tasty and satisfying meal. When prompted to know more about himself, he smiled and shifted into “bard” mode, relating his past and tales with a grin and a flourish, grateful for an interested audience. He’d paid for more than one meal with song and dance, this would just be one more.

When he was done, as was dinner, Dominic regarded him thoughtfully over the rim of his teacup, inquiring if Lysander was looking to change careers, and the Hyur nearly dropped his own drink. “I… Actually, I rather had. After that fight I’ve done nothing but recover, and it’s not the first time I’ve nearly gotten myself killed. Maybe a change of lifestyles is in order.”

They talked for a while longer, and at the end of it, Lysander had made his decision.

 

“Wow, that didn’t take long,” Risu remarked, her legs dangling over the edge of the dock as she watched the sun set.

Nodding, Lysander leaned against the support pylon next to her. “Yeah, but I’d been thinking about doing something else for a while, and this would open my horizons a bit. That, and I could put away a bit of money, see the world, what have you. Once Xander is older I’ll have a better idea of what I’ll be able to do for him and where we can live, so this is a step in the right direction.”

With a nod of agreement, she rested her weight on her hands behind her. “We’ll all miss you, but it’s a good idea. You did get yourself hurt pretty bad, so I don’t blame you for wanting to step away for a while. Just be sure to come back and visit now and then, okay?” He nodded back, and they enjoyed the sunset a bit longer.

“Um, so…” she began, breaking the silence, and he shifted to look down at her. “You remember a couple of years ago when you got, erm, blown off of that ship?”

Rolling his eyes, Lysander grunted. “Hard not to, you nearly got me drowned.”

“About that.” This piqued his curiosity, and he watched her quietly. “When…Jacke got you to the dock and I pulled you up you…weren’t breathing.” Lysander’s eyes went wide, but he said nothing, as he remembered nothing between the explosion and waking up on the dock. “You… Um, I never said anything because I didn’t want it to be awkward, but… Jacke’s the reason you’re still alive. Not just because he got you to me, but because he gave you rescue breathing.”

The world went a bit blurry and wobbly for a moment, and Lysander put his fingers to his lips. Wait, Jacke had really… Risu waited in silence for him to absorb this, and for a response. When he didn’t say anything, she stared at the surface of the water and continued kicking her legs, twining a lock of hair around her finger. “I never said anything because I didn’t think it was my place to do so, and I didn’t want anything weird to happen between you two because of it, but…” She glanced up at him, looking apologetic. “Since you’re thinking of leaving, I figured that, well…”

“Yeah…”

They had been good enough friends for long enough for her to know that his silence was thoughtful and that he was grateful for this information, but at the same time, it was unexpected. They said nothing more until it got dark, then went inside to announce his “retirement” and where he’d be going. It wasn’t ill-received, but all the same, his skills would be missed, as well as his personality.  Only now did it occur to him that he had really left an impression here and that they genuinely did care. He felt a twinge of guilt, but the honest well-wishes he got eased that pain.

There wasn’t much for him to transfer to the ship the next day, and it was accomplished in two runs. He left Xander on the ship when he went back for the last time to make sure that he’d grabbed everything and to give the last round of goodbyes. He hadn’t missed anything, but he would miss them all, and he felt a cold stab of sadness to not see Jacke there. Damn…

Perhaps it was for the best after all…

Standing next to the ship, Lysander stared up at it, lost in thought. This was going to be his new home. A new adventure. As he began to walk toward the gangplank he jumped when he heard a familiar chuckle. Jacke?!

The guildmaster leaned against a support, smirking at him. “Ha, ye jumped like a fresh colt, L’sander. Not gone soft already, have ye?”

Lysander’s heart thundered in his ears, not just from surprise, but delight. He had one last chance! “I wasn’t expecting anyone, honestly, especially… Well…”

“Ye really thought I’d not say g’bye? I’m insulted!” Jacked laughed and nodded at the ship. “So, a new life sailin’ the skies an’ seas? What will ye be doin’?”

About to answer, Lysander chuckled quietly and smiled. “You came here to kill me yourself.” A grin was his reply, and Lysander hooked his thumbs in his belt. “No worries, mate, I’m not going pirate. They’re traders and merchants. Yes, they’ll hit other ships, but Garlean only, and I think we can all agree that those bastards are fair game. In fact, having me along makes things easier, since they can state with honesty that they’ve got a Rogue on board, so not only am I ensuring that they stay to the code, others know that we’re not to be messed with.”

“Oh? ‘We’ already?” He laughed again and waved a hand as Lysander turned a bit red. “It’s okay, that’s good, yer loyalty was never in doubt. Still, if it came down to it and ye did turn, well, I’d do ye the honor of killin’ ye myself.”

This would have sounded strange to damn near anyone else, but the Rogues’ Guild is a strange family, and Lysander wrapped that thought up and tucked it away to remember later. _Family_. Sighing deeply, he stepped forward, paused, reached out with one hand, then drew it back. He _was_ leaving, so it couldn’t hurt, but at the same time, he didn’t want to ruin everything at the very end.

Steeling himself, he made his decision and wrapped his arms around the other Hyur, pulling him in for a final hug. Jacke didn’t pull away, and to Lysander’s amazement, returned the hug. This was it. The last time, the last chance… Lysander took in every sense that he could, committing everything to memory; the scent of Jacke’s cologne, the touch of their hands on each other, the sound of his laugh… It was both wonderful and awful, and it hurt so well and so badly.

_He’s here. You’re both alone. You can do this. You’re leaving anyway. You might die soon, you never know, so why not? Don’t leave it undone, just go ahead and-_

Tears burned his eyes, and he blinked them away as he stepped back. “I… I want to… You’re…” He clenched a fist and smiled, albeit sadly. “Thank you, for everything. …Goodbye.”

Without waiting for an answer, he turned and walked up the gangplank, biting his lip to hold back tears just a little longer. Lysander Morgensonne the Rogue was now gone. He was now part of the crew of the Crimson Rose. A new life had started.

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> //If for whatever reason you think I'm interesting, I am the [Random Squirrel](http://randomsquirrel.tumblr.com) on Tumblr. Contains reblogs of things I think are interesting and random acts of shitposting.//

**Author's Note:**

> //If for whatever reason you think I'm interesting, I am the [Random Squirrel](http://randomsquirrel.tumblr.com) on Tumblr. Contains reblogs of things I think are interesting and random acts of shitposting.//


End file.

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> Rajiya will do whatever she must to ensure her companions thrive. Ambiguous timeframe.

_Black eyes, broken fingers,_

_Blood drips and I let it run down my lips and to my swollen gums_

_When hope is non-existent,_

_Our instincts all scream, “Run”,_

_We never turn our backs or even bite our tongue._

_-Behind Closed Doors (Rise Against)_

* * *

 

The blow connected with Rajiya’s face just slowly enough for her to turn her head a little bit.  Her lip split all the same, and she tasted the coppery tang of her own blood as it spattered against her teeth.  She snarled at her captors, giving them what they wanted to see–the Commander of Light, bound and at their mercy, her assassination attempt failed.

They didn’t need to know it hadn’t failed at all, yet.

Ninishori Nunushori was one of the quieter of Ul’dah’s elite, but that just meant he’d flown under their radar for longer.  Nothing he did seemed terrible…until one sifted through the layers of hirelings, lackeys, and accomplices he used to do his dirty work.  At that point, the middle-aged Dunesfolk man looked less like a Lalafell and more like a spider, sitting at the middle of his putrid web and waiting for money, baubles, and artifacts to filter their way down the strands and into his grasping claws.

They’d become aware of him by accident, really–they’d attended an auction with a number of Allagan and Mhachi artifacts up for sale, mostly as a diversion, and had witnessed Ninishori lose a bid on some Mhachi scrolls.  They’d thought nothing of it until the winner turned up dead less than a week later, of mysterious-but-probably-natural causes.  They might not have even thought anything of it if they hadn’t gone to  _another_ antiques auction later the same week, and saw Ninishori lose again…only for  _that_  buyer to meet the same fate as the first.

That vaulted him to a person of interest in a hurry.  Rajiya had started investigating by herself, trying to determine the connections between Ninishori and his network.  It had been slow going–the man was frighteningly cautious–but she was better.  She’d had to move quickly, though, when she saw him mobilizing some of his seedier agents for an inevitable murder, and that left her with only one option– to ‘botch’ an assassination on him to try and gather information.

Another blow connected, and she knew that she’d have a black eye from that–but as far as softening up went, they’d have to do a lot worse to her to get her to speak.  She wasn’t going to let it get to that point.

“Who sent you?” one of them said sharply.  She stared at him coolly, until he snarled and struck her again, snapping her head in the opposite direction.  “Tell us!  Your pack of would-be heroes will take the stupidest of jobs…who hired you?”

She said nothing.  He wouldn’t believe the truth, and she wasn’t interested in playing the game.

“We’re wasting time,” his partner said.  “Tie her up and we’ll work her over when we get back.  The opera starts in half an hour.”

“Aye,” the first one said, sounding a bit disgusted.  “Well, at least she won’t be in our way.  Should make this easier.”

_Wait…why would she be in their way?_

He gave her a swift kick and went over her bindings–far too casually to actually see the flaws that would allow her to escape.  Then both left, taking the lantern with them and plunging the room into near-darkness.

Fortunately, she was a Miqo’te, but even if she hadn’t been, she could do this by feel.  The bindings fell from her wrists and she hunted around for her knives, strapping them at her sides once she put hands on them.  They must have been planning to torture her with her own blades…idiots.

Still, why would she have anything to do with the opera?

A thought came to her mind, unbidden.  Elsi in a gown of crushed velvet, hurrying out of the company house, stammering out excuses before pelting down the street in her fashionable high-heeled shoes.  At the time, Rajiya had just let her go with a sigh, but…

Elsi collected books and relics, Allagan, Mhachi, and any others that she thought might have something to do with the study of thaumaturgy, arcanima, or black magic.  Had she been to any auctions lately that the others hadn’t attended?  Had Ninishori simply learned that Elsi owned some artifact or tome that he wanted his claws on?

Rajiya, alarmed now, tried the door (bolted) and her linkpearl (nobody was paying attention) before working on the lock, in the dark, by feel alone.  It took her much longer than she liked to get it open, and she slipped into the shadows of the hall outside quickly once she did.  This building wasn’t Ninishori’s manor–it was in the poorer part of Ul’dah, at that.  She’d have to move quickly to get to the opera house in time.

She dashed up the stairs, out a window, and climbed to the roof swiftly, the textured fingers and toes of her gloves and boots finding cracks and gaps in the mortared brick.  Once on the roof, she took off in more-or-less a straight line, ducking past laundry lines and dovecotes as she moved.

The sun was just beginning to set, and it cast uncertain shadows sometimes, but she never missed her mark.  Her feet landed right, her fingers (though aching by this point from the tender attentions of Ninishori’s hirelings) found every ledge and gap as she bade them.

She slipped in one of the roof entrances of the opera house and made her way down.  She didn’t even know where Elsi sat for these things!  Did she sit in the audience?  She certainly had enough gil to afford a private box, and Rajiya felt like that’s what she’d prefer, but she just wasn’t sure…she paused in a hallway that had an open walkway facing the audience section, and quickly scanned it.  She could only see about half of the private boxes from here, but luckily, she spotted a familiar flash of deep-green skin and amethyst limbal rings.  Unfortunately, Elsi’s box was on the other side of the room.

Rajiya took off at a trot, still blending into the shadows.  The opera had started, and those present were primarily paying attention to the music, but she saw no sense in taking chances.  She was glad she had moved as quickly as she had, however, when she reached the hallway that connected to the private boxes and saw the same two ruffians from earlier–wearing uniforms, but obviously the ones that had been hassling her.  One had bruised knuckles and a small cut from where he’d clipped one of her fangs, for Twelves’ sake!

She drew both her blades, flipping the cutting edge back along her forearms, and waited.  They seemed to be waiting for a certain point in the music to attack, and so she waited a moment longer as they shifted back and forth.  Finally, when both were paying attention to the velvet curtain and the music beyond, she moved in like lightning, grasping the head of the nearer in one hand and slitting his throat in a single neat strike.  His companion turned at once, but she had already rolled behind the second man, and she rose like a Voidsent from the blackest hells to repeat the move that had ended his partner’s life.

A pause, then; she wanted to make sure that Elsi hadn’t noticed.  She oh-so-gently moved the curtain just a fraction; the Auri woman, garbed in a lovely gown of purple silk damask, was sitting as close to the railing as she could, head in her hands, attention focused on the stage.  A lorgnette with black opal inlays sat on the railing at one side; evidently she was enjoying the music right now and didn’t require the glasses at the moment.  Rajiya let the curtain fall shut and looked at the rapidly cooling bodies–and the significant amount of blood–at her feet.

It was easily solved, though; she hunted through the corridors to find another private box that was currently unoccupied and, with a moment of pity for the opera house staff and the owners, she hauled the bodies inside, flipping the curtain back to hide them from the view of those in the hall.  The blood she dealt with by way of some ninjutsu and a sanjaku-tenugui she’d had stowed away; that went back in a waterproof pouch to be dealt with later.

That done, she leaned against the wall by one side of the doorway.  She’d be gone before Elsi left, but she would stay until near the end of the opera.  She would do a great many things for her companions, as evidenced by her quick elimination of the threat…and letting her enjoy an opera in peace was the least she could do.

She dabbed at her sluggishly bleeding lip with one fingertip and settled in to wait.


	2. False Calm

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> This is sort of a plotless, rambling drabble featuring my character (Rajiya), Kyari Angevir, and Mattoid Shappo, with brief mentions of Weaver and Awesome Blossom.
> 
> Spoilers for 3.0/3.1, takes place between 3.1 and 3.2.

Rajiya still didn’t feel entirely comfortable in the Fortemps manor, but she was getting there.

The Echoes could have returned to their home base, the estate in the Goblet, but not all of them had.  Travel had eased up between the city-states after they’d been cleared of their crimes against the Sultanate, but Rajiya and a few others were still a bit distrustful of the Monetarists, and besides, there was enough in Ishgard that needed their attention that it made sense to stay.

She still found the marble and velvet a bit oppressive sometimes, but the generosity of Edmont and his sons was a steady presence in their lives, and all the Echoes who remained were diplomatic enough to ignore a bit of discomfort.

That was why one chilly evening found Rajiya in the kitchens of the manor, hunting through the crate of things that the Echoes had bought or found that appealed to non-Ishgardian palates.  The cooks had been nervous about her presence at first, but it turned out that ‘trained at the Bismarck’ had enough weight to settle them, even if they still whispered about impropriety now and then.

She found what she was looking for soon enough–a bag of coffee beans, still mostly full.  She scooped out a portion and dropped them into a mortar and pestle, grinding them up and filling that corner of the kitchens with their rich aroma.  She stretched a piece of cheesecloth across the top of a mug, dumped in a scoop of ground beans, and started pouring boiling water over top.  A few of the cooks looked up appreciatively as the steam made the smell waft in their direction.

Rajiya was tired.  She hoped the coffee would help.  She smiled at one of the chefs, a young hyuran woman, who brought her a shallow pan with some buffalo milk gently steaming in it; they knew her tastes by now.  She picked up a wire whisk and started whipping the milk, gently frothing it.  By then the coffee was ready, and she poured the milk into the mug, adding in a few generous spoonfuls of sugar and taking a generous sip.

It was delicious.  She cleaned up her mess, smiled at the cooks, and left.

Her steps took her out into the common areas, to the upper floors, near the attics, where they’d been given rooms.  There were a few balconies here that looked out over the Pillars, and she found herself stepping onto one, trying to ignore the chilly air that was already beginning to seep into her bones.

She ignored the pain across her ribs and took another sip of coffee.  From somewhere nearby, a different manor, she heard the faint sounds of music and conversation.  If she strained, she might hear the sounds of Foundation, but they were almost inaudible; the cries of drovers and the people of the Brume, the faint clinking and clanking of armor and weapons as knights drilled.

Weakness swept across her as she lifted the mug for another sip, and she gasped in shock as it slipped from fingers that trembled.  The thing was sturdy stoneware, but even it couldn’t take the punishment of hitting the flagstones, and it cracked as the coffee spilled across the balcony.

She barely registered the dark form of a dragoon alighting on the balcony rail as she crumpled to the ground and darkness swept over her.

* * *

It was quite a bit later that she awoke, and when she did, she was inside with two women arguing over her.

One was dressed in dragonlancer’s gear, her helmet removed and lance leaning against the wall near the door.  The interior lights made her red hair even brighter, and she was shaking her head at the blonde woman just a few fulms away.

The blonde was dressed more simply–or so it appeared–in a red leather-and-chain tabard, with gloves that went up to the elbow and, perhaps most incongruously, a black domino mask.

“I found her collapsed out there,” the dragoon said.  “Actually, I got there right as she fell.”

“She’s been overworking herself,” the blonde murmured.  “We all have, but she takes it too far.”

“I’m right here,” Rajiya tried to say, but the words emerged only as a hoarse croak.

The women turned to look at her almost in unison, then both stepped to the edge of the bed.

“Did you hear me?” the blonde said, her tone stern, even exasperated.  “You take things too far.  We know you’ve been overworking yourself.”

“I think this might be more than just work, Kyari,” the dragoon murmured.  She reached out and pressed her hand against Rajiya’s ribs, which made the miqo’te instinctively hiss and flinch.

Kyari glanced from the dragoon to Rajiya and sighed.

“Thank you, Mattoid,” she said after a moment, and stripped off her gloves.  “Could you go to the stillroom and the kitchens and see if you can get some bandages, salve, and hot water?”

The dragoon nodded and left.

“So, what happened here?” Kyari said, sitting on the edge of the bed.  “Does Weaver know?”

Rajiya shook her head.  “He’s…in Vylbrand.  Maelstrom needed him for something.  I’ve been trying to physick myself, but it hasn’t been helping as much I as hoped.”  She sighed, not arguing, as Kyari pushed her shirt up just enough to see the cut across her ribs.  “It was–you know Blossom wanted us to send samples of plants and minerals from the Diadem back to Ul’dah.  An Endymion caught me right as I was going after some cloud cotton…”

The gash across Rajiya’s ribs was puffy, agitated; whatever spells she’d been using to try and fix it hadn’t been working, or had, at best, been enough to stave off blood poisoning and not much else.  Infection was a distinct possibility.  Kyari sighed.

“You need to tell people you’ve been hurt,” she said, still stern.

“I thought Weaver would have been back by now,” Rajiya countered, as sullen in her own way as a child caught with their hand in the cookie jar.

“That’s exactly why you need to tell people,” Kyari said.  “In case things like this happen.”

Rajiya grumbled.  Fortunately, both women were saved from continued argument by the reappearance of Mattoid.  The dragoon had bandages draped over her arms, a jar of salve in the crook of her left arm and a bowl of steaming water in both hands.  Kyari quickly appropriated the items and began cleaning and tending to the wound.

“I didn’t expect you to be–ouch!–quite so thorough at this,” Rajiya grumbled after Kyari’s third pass with antiseptic.

“Pureblood Garleans can’t use magic,” Kyari said absently.  “We all had to learn first aid, and my rank meant I had to know more.  I can do some field surgery, too.  Sit up some?”  When Rajiya failed to sit up, Kyari looked unsurprised.  “Figured.  Mattoid, help her.”

With the dragoon’s help, Rajiya was lifted into a sitting position, and new bandages were applied.

“There,” Kyari said.  “If Weaver isn’t back within a day, we’ll check the bandages and change them.  In the meantime, you need to rest.”

Rajiya tried to argue, but Kyari flicked her fingers, and a familiar veil of white magic settled over her.  It was impossible to try and fight a repose spell while so weak, and she found darkness settling over her eyes before she could do more than grumble in dislike.

* * *

A short walk found Kyari and Mattoid on the same balcony that Rajiya had been at when she fell.  Kyari knelt to clean up the largest pieces of the shattered mug while Mattoid pulled the visor of her helm back down.

“What are we still doing here?” Kyari wondered at last, a sigh escaping her mouth.  “It’s not like they couldn’t get a message to us.  I can understand you, at least,” she hastened to add.  “With Estinien gone, you’re the Azure Dragoon.  They need you to watch out for dragons.  But the rest of us?  We’re living on Fortemps hospitality and waiting for the hammer to fall.  We’d be better off trying to set up a branch of the Adventurer’s Guild in Idyllshire, or returning to Ul’dah.”

Mattoid gazed at the horizon for a moment, taking one supernaturally-large step up to the balcony railing and balancing there with perfect poise, one leg slightly bent, lance held in her right hand.

“Whatever changes the future holds will begin here,” she said at last.  “On some level, Rajiya knows that, and I know you do as well.  Anything that happens here will throw ripples across all Eorzea like a stone in a pond.  By the time those ripples reached Idyllshire or Ul’dah, it might be too late to react.”

Kyari wilted slightly as Mattoid turned back, lifting her visor just enough so that Kyari could see the anguish, still raw, in her eyes.

“Sometimes even being there when it happens isn’t enough time, after all.”

Without another word, the dragoon lowered her visor again, turned, and leapt skyward, vanishing into the icy mist swirling around the manor’s eaves.  Kyari shivered and went back inside.

* * *

As it turned out, Weaver did not return swiftly.  A missive from Maelstrom Command suggested that his mission might take longer than even Merlwyb had anticipated.  Rajiya tolerated the visits from Kyari and Mattoid, the changing of her bandages, until she’d finally recovered enough from injury and exhaustion to sit up.

At that point, she was bored enough to go through her packs and find something else–a bamboo flute, an instrument Oboro had called a shakuhachi.  Rajiya was adept enough at playing it, given that she’d received a little bardic training, but she often hated the sound, because it seemed to have a haunting, mournful quality.  She only ever played it alone, on one of the balconies, not wanting others to hear songs becoming something almost like a lament.

Now, though, she lifted it to her lips and began playing a song that the Wandering Minstrel had played many nights in Seventh Heaven, while the Scions and Echoes gathered to listen to the performance.

_Tell us why, given Life, we are meant to die, helpless in our cries?_

As the last notes of the song faded, the haunting breath of the flute fading away, she rummaged around for a different set of sheet music.  This music had begun making the rounds of Ishgard’s taverns and drinking-holes, though the melody seemed to have originated from the depths of Dravania.  As far as Rajiya knew, it had no words–yet–but meaning seemed to hang in the air as she played the flute.

_Tell me why break trust, why turn the past to dust, seeking solace in the abyss…_

Rajiya looked up as she finished playing the song, only to catch a glimpse of something–someone–quickly walking away from her room.  Black hair, but shorter than Artoirel.

Emmanelain?

She shook her head.  He’d been acting strangely the last time they’d all met, when his brother declared his intent to take over his father’s title and duties.  She didn’t want to hazard a guess at what might be going on.

After all that had happened and all that they had endured in Ishgard, she still couldn’t quite shake the feeling–the worry–that the worst was yet to come…


	3. On Moonlit Wings

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> Rajiya meets a new traveling companion – a wyvern.
> 
> Takes place sometime during Heavensward, but otherwise ambiguous timeframe.

Interacting with the Dravanians had been an experience for Rajiya and the rest of the Cobalt Echoes.  Rajiya was accustomed to receiving letters from all corners of the realm, but messages from dragons tended to come in person, often in clandestine fashion, or via ragged scraps of paper that the Moogles delivered with notable distaste.  Their scorn was clear; this was not a letter, and shouldn’t be delivered via the post!  The fact that they delivered them anyway spoke volumes.

As it stood, the message Rajiya received that day was one of the verbal sort, from an otherwise-inoffensive looking Elezen man who wouldn’t have stood out anywhere in Ishgard proper, and certainly didn’t a malm or two from Idyllshire.  Then again, the heretics probably needed inoffensive faces even in the depths of the Holy See.

“Well met,” he had said, and then launched into his message without delay.  “Vidofnir bids you return to Anyx Trine when you are able.  She wishes to make an introduction.”

With that, he held up his hand in something that was not quite a salute and not quite a goodbye and strode off purposefully.  Rajiya shrugged and looked at her garb–Astrologian getup, for she’d been waiting for evening to chart a few things–but she had been planning to do so out of curiosity and not necessity, so she saw no reason not to hurry on to Anyx Trine.

She reached for the aether and was soon standing in the dimly lit interior of the tower, a brief moment of stomach-turning nausea gripping her before she shook her head.  She paced to the stairs, the physical activity of climbing banishing the last of her woes.  By the time she reached Vidofnir, she was back to normal.

 _“Ah, you’ve arrived,”_  the dragon said simply once Rajiya stepped into her view.  As always, there was that unsettling half-second pause as the Echo reached into her mind and translated the words, accompanied by the faint echo of the actual draconic words behind the meaning. Rajiya focused.   _“I have someone I want you to meet.  I believe she will be useful in your travels.”_

Vidofnir looked up, and a wyvern stepped off of a crumbling perch and gracefully glided down to the floor between Vidofnir and Rajiya.

 _“This is Moh Hess,”_  Vidofnir said.   _“She once carried a mortal through the skies, and would be willing to do so again, for your sake.”_

Rajiya could scarcely guess at the meaning of the wyvern’s name, but she bowed.  “I’m honored.  Thank you, Moh Hess.”

The wyvern didn’t speak for a moment, then nodded.  _“I believe the honor is mine, hero.  Climb on, and let us see how well we may travel together.”_

Rajiya examined the wyvern’s thin neck and shoulders as she gathered her skirts in one hand, then climbed on, settling herself between the wyvern’s wings. It wasn’t particularly comfortable, but it was definitely manageable.  The wyvern gave a push of her legs and they were airborne.  Rajiya found her balance easily enough and splayed her hands against the wyvern’s warm, scaly hide, settling her legs as Moh Hess made her way out of Anyx Trine.

They did a few laps around the tower before the wyvern landed and gazed back at Rajiya with a curious look.   _“Your garb.  The ornaments.  What do they mean?”_

Rajiya looked at the various ornaments on her robes and star globe, patterned after the moon and stars, then back at the wyvern.  She had a feeling that Moh Hess knew quite well, but humored her with a response all the same.  “The moon, the stars.  I’ve been studying Sharlayan astrology.”

The wyvern was oddly quiet, then looked back at the sky.   _“My…last companion enjoyed gazing at the stars, also.  As do I.”_

Rajiya felt her regard for the wyvern–and for Vidofnir–warm considerably.  “Ah, then I believe we are well suited.”

* * *

Indeed, it did not take long for Moh Hess to warm to Rajiya, and one day not even a month later, the wyvern informed Rajiya that she was taking her to see something special, and with little preamble ferried her partner to the very top of Sohm Al, higher than Rajiya had gone before.

The sky was incredibly clear here, despite the air being thin enough that Rajiya’s breath rattled in her chest in an unpleasant fashion.  She was managing, however, and the clarity of the stars and moon were breathtaking.

Moh Hess interrupted their stargazing to show Rajiya something.  A small stone marker, without adornments but with a few blue flowers lying on the stony peak nearby.

 _“I choose to remember him here,”_  Moh Hess said at length, and Rajiya understood, all at once.  The wyvern hadn’t said much about her previous comrade, other than that he was an Elezen that was all legs, once a knight, and that Rajiya was a lot shorter and ‘a little bit more fluffy’.  She suspected that was a joke.

Rajiya knelt respectfully before the marker and brushed her fingers over it.  The surface was worn by time, but still fairly smooth.  She glanced over her shoulder at the wyvern’s claws, then back at the stone, and finally spoke, a little uncertainly.

“Would you like for me to engrave his name?”

The wyvern blinked, slowly, then lifted her head in what Rajiya was beginning to understand was an expression of hope and happiness.  In turn, Rajiya smiled and dug through her packs, finding her goldsmith’s hammer and set of chisels.

“What was his name?” she asked.

 _“Sindarioux,”_  Moh Hess replied.

Rajiya nodded and set to work.  Before long, the name was neatly engraved on the stone.

As she put up her hammer, she turned to look at Moh Hess, having a feeling about something she’d noticed before.  The whorls of blue pigment, well-worn by time, that still clung to the scales on the wyvern’s face–those hadn’t been put there by her own claws.  Rajiya sat down by the dragon’s side, and then asked.

Moh Hess was quiet for a long time before answering.   _“Yes.  He put those on my face.  It seemed silly at the time, but I am…sad that I could not take better care of them, now.”_

“I could touch them up, if you’d like,” Rajiya offered, and the astonishment in the dragon’s eyes was all the encouragement she needed.  She fished around in her packs, finding blue pigments and a mirror, and began crushing and mixing the pigment into paint.  Then, with careful fingers, letting Moh Hess watch in the mirror, she re-painted the dragon’s face.

 _“He was brave,”_  the dragon said when they were done, Rajiya’s fingers washed and the paint dried, and Rajiya was leaning back into the curve of the wyvern’s side again, safe beneath one of her wings.  _“A knight.  But he was injured, badly, and they had to remove one of his legs, at the knee.  He took up stargazing, and we became friends.  I think I loved him, at the end, though not in the way of Hraesvelgr and Shiva.  We were simply two kindred souls, cursed by time.  Mortals are so fleeting.”_

The sorrow in the wyvern’s voice twisted Rajiya’s heart, and she patted the dragon’s shoulder companionably.  “Then I am glad I may have been able to help you honor his memory,” she offered.

It seemed like that was the right thing to say.

Rajiya slept before long, worn out from her exertions carving the stone.  She had the strangest dream–an Elezen man with hair so pale a blonde it was almost silver and piercing blue eyes gazed at her over a nose like a hawk’s beak, then smiled.  She noticed then that one of his legs was missing below the knee, and he leaned on a wooden crutch.

Sindarioux? She mouthed, for she didn’t seem able to speak.  He nodded.

“Thank you,” he said softly, “for looking after Moh Hess.”

When she awoke, the dream had softened around the edges, but she looked at the wyvern,  yawning slightly, and spoke.

“Forgive me, Moh Hess.  What did Sindarioux look like?”

The wyvern gazed at her curiously, but honored her request.   _“Hair almost as pale as snow.  Eyes like an autumn sky.”_

Rajiya smiled.  It was then that she knew she’d done well.  She threw an arm over the wyvern’s shoulders in a sort of half-hug and looked up at the sky, now clear and sunny.

“Let’s go,” she said.  “I want to get some more parchment before we come back here.”

The wyvern nodded companionably, and they went.


	4. Sanctuary

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> Late-night conversations in the Fortemps manor. Takes place after the end of ARR but before the beginning of Heavensward, or thereabouts.
> 
> Featuring references to Haurchefant/Mattoid.

Rajiya certainly hadn’t intended to stay the night at the Fortemps manor, despite the Count’s effusive offers of hospitality.  She didn’t feel right imposing on the family after all the trauma and upheaval the Scions and the Cobalt Echoes had gone through.  Having them as the patron for her rag-tag band of adventurers was more than enough.

Despite her intentions, however, she found herself all but trapped in the plush manor house when a blizzard swooped through the Holy See with lightning speed, leaving the doors barred and the fires flickering due to the high winds.  With a sigh, she went in search of the manor’s library, and soon found a couple of rather interesting tomes, which she purloined and carried to a small parlor that had several comfortable couches and a well-tended fire.

Here she settled in, tucking her legs underneath her as she paged through the tomes.  One was a rather ancient copy of the Enchiridion, which she found incredibly fascinating.  Had it been in the Fortemps family since the founding?  She turned the preserved pages with care, and her attention was so fixed on the book that the sound of a door opening and closing almost escaped her attention.

Almost.

She looked up just in time to see the Sharlayan woman they called Mattoid padding down the hall, dressed in naught but a somewhat overlarge tunic (Elezen sized, perhaps…) and a pair of leggings.  Mattoid’s gaze was a bit…dreamy, and she didn’t notice Rajiya sitting in the parlor until she was through the doorway.  And then, when she saw the Miqo’te, Mattoid did something Rajiya didn’t expect.

She  _blushed._

Rajiya blinked in surprise, then smiled.  “Oh…who does that room belong to?  Wait, don’t tell me, let me guess…”

The Hyuran woman shifted from foot to foot.  “I can explain, just…”

“You don’t have to,” Rajiya said calmly, patting the couch next to her.  Mattoid hesitated for a second, then walked over and sat down.

“Are you happy?” Rajiya asked.  Mattoid nodded without hesitation.  “And is he?” Another nod.  “Well then,” the Miqo’te said firmly, “That’s really all that matters.”

“You really think so?” Mattoid asked, and the tense note in her voice made Rajiya look at her closely, and then keep talking.

In the end, the two women’s conversation continued until both were drifting off–their exhaustion borne of different sources, but both lulled to sleep by the softness of the sofa and the crackling fire.

It was there that Haurchefant found them, having finally left his room in search of Mattoid, who had left just to get mugs of cocoa–or so she’d said.  He smiled ruefully at the two Warriors of Light on the couch, the precious books Rajiya had been thumbing through on a nearby table, Mattoid’s head on the Miqo’te woman’s shoulder.  He fetched a blanket and spread it over both, and if he tucked in the red-headed Hyur a little more carefully, who could blame him?

He left with the books under his arm and a brighter smile on his face.


	5. Empty Prayers

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> Rajiya reflects. Post-Vault/Heavensward MSQ spoilers.

The tiny Miqo’te woman trudged across the snow, her dark clothing a shadowy blot on an otherwise uninterrupted expanse of white.  North from Dragonhead, on foot, following the line of the cliffs, then west…

At last she stood on the cliff overlooking the city of Ishgard.  The cliff where a certain headstone rested in state.

She was not the only one to have come here.  He had touched many lives, including those of the companions she’d had with her in the Vault.  Of all the memories of that day, some of the most heartrending were not her own.  Mattoid’s heartbroken, bereft wail; Weaver’s vehement curses, Kyulili’s quiet sobs.

Not all the offerings were from adventurers, either.  She could guess who must have left the cloak-badge with the symbol of Ishgard, for it was pristine and crafted from platinum; only a high-ranking Temple Knight could afford such luxury.  Likewise for what resembled a Garlean spy’s visor.  There were bits and baubles from the residents of Dragonhead, too, and other things besides, likely from the Fortemps family.

Rajiya missed him.  She slowly lowered herself to her knees with a sigh, and lifted her burden–a bundle of snow lilies–placing it in the ragged gash that had punctured the proud knight’s shield.

She stared at the sky, afterward, wondering at what had happened so far, at the cost to so many.  The Scions were still fractured, with Y’shtola a pale, fey, and strained version of her former self.  No word had yet come of any of their other companions.  The Cobalt Echoes had borne up scarce better under the weight of the year’s events.

“Matron guide me,” she whispered, closing her eyes as her lips formed the familliar prayer.  “And in my heart sow serenity, purity, and sanctity.”

The words fell hollow.  Nophica’s bitter cousin controlled these lands, and Halone planted only fury.  That fury had taken root in Rajiya’s own heart, but the months since the Vault had seen it bear only fatigue in its wake.

Rajiya slowly stood and stepped to the edge of the cliff, gazing past Ishgard, in the direction of Dravania.  She pulled a last snow lily from the front of her shirt and tossed it into the wind, fingers forming two mudra as she did.  As the wind whipped the lily away, it did so coated in a fine layer of ice, clear as crystal.

“Rest you both well, Lord Haurchefant, Lady Ysayle,” she murmured into the stiff, chilly breeze.  “Were fate not so cruel, we would still have you both, for you are sorely needed.”  She sighed and glanced at the faraway mountains.  “Twelve be good, we’ll find some way to get Estinien back, if naught else.”

She turned to walk away from the memorial, trying to hide the dark feeling in her heart that she could no longer convince herself that the Twelve were anything at all.


	6. The Little Things

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> Rajiya adopts a puk. Ambiguous timeframe.

She’d been making her way north from Bloodshore when she heard the cry.  A high-pitched, screeching wail of some kind of small creature in danger.  She urged her chocobo on, and the bird obligingly picked up the pace.

Soon she found the source.  In the thick foliage to one side of the road, a cliff puk had made a nest.  What had prompted the reptile to rear her young on the ground and not on a cliff was a mystery, but it would remain that way–her decision had proven fatal.  The larger puk corpse was nearly flattened, the eyes already glassy.  From the footprints, Rajiya guessed that it had been a buffalo, and that the large animal probably hadn’t even known what it had done.

Nearby was the nest, and unfortunately, all the hatchlings inside had shared their mother’s gruesome fate–save one.  The smallest, obviously the runt, had tumbled from the nest and now laid outside, crying out and flailing a bit.

Rajiya hopped off her chocobo’s back and picked up the puk.  It rewarded her by biting down on her hand.  She sighed–it didn’t hurt, given her thick leather gloves, but it wasn’t appropriate behavior, so she made a stern, sharp noise and smacked it on the nose.  Surprised, the tiny lizard jerked back and wriggled, flapping its tiny, underdeveloped wings.

She sighed and hopped back up onto the chocobo’s back, holding the puk in one hand.  They were like vermin out here–why did she care about this one?  She looked it over again.  It was so tiny it might well die of exposure and starvation, anyway.  Still, she dug around in her packs, giving her bird his head while he trotted toward Costa del Sol.  She found a piece of jerky and shredded it into scraps, nudging one against the lizard’s mouth.  It seemed to get the idea after a moment and stopped thrashing, instead opening its mouth wide.  She obligingly dropped the scraps of meat in, one by one.  To her surprise, the little creature kept its mouth open even after consuming the whole strip of jerky and made an insistent noise.

She dug in her bags again and found a piece of cornbread.  Breaking this up, she fed the puk that as well.  To her bafflement, it demanded more.  In turns she fed it a few scraps of eel pie and, finally, at wit’s end, three whole sun lemons.  This finally seemed to sate the puk’s hunger, and it flopped down onto the saddle, burping slightly.

Rajiya scratched her head.  What was she going to do with it?  Just about then, her chocobo strode into Costa del Sol, and she decided that, for now, she’d keep the scalekin.

After all, how much trouble could it possibly be?


	7. Family

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> Sometimes your family is hard to deal with. Sometimes they’re your saving grace.
> 
> Rajiya visits her family in Gridania; this is a mostly-plotless setpiece. Influenced slightly by my own personal interpretations of Keeper culture.
> 
> Timeline is ambiguous.

Twilight was breaking over Gridania as Rajiya arrived.  She hadn’t had a chance to visit her family in quite some time, given the mess in Ishgard, but she’d finally managed to secure a couple of days to travel south.  She took a breath of the warm, sweetly-scented forest air and watched as the hyur and elezen inhabitants of the city started to drift homeward. **  
**

Not all of the Keepers kept to their habits of sleeping during the day, so no few of her kin were heading home either–but others were emerging from their homes instead, heading to their relatively peaceful night-time jobs in the Wildflower Stalls, the guilds, or with the Wood Wailers or Gods’ Quiver.  Rajiya was given to understand that the first wave of Keepers accepted into Gridanian culture had been a bit of a relief for the city’s military, for having an entire group of people who preferred to work at night eased the strain of setting patrols and divvying up what the hyur and elezen considered to be the most unfavorable jobs.

For her part, Rajiya kept no schedule.  She was as often awake at night as during the day, depending on what crisis needed to be solved at the moment, so it was easy enough to enjoy the approaching night, and she knew that her mother would be awake to boot.  It wasn’t far to the Fharis home, and she paused, as always, to take it in when she arrived at the gate.

Everything was lovingly carved with plants and forest animals, with a wooden bluebird perched on one of the fence-posts that might as well be real if not for its color.  The only thing that stood out to Rajiya as different was the presence of a few toys in the yard–a rocking ‘bo and jumping rope, some child-sized gardening tools.  She pushed the gate open and walked up and into the house itself.

It was, as always, warm and welcoming.  The owner of the toys was playing with some others–carved wooden beastkin and painted blocks–on a rug before the hearth.  Her sister Zana’s daughter.

“Hi there, Gehva,” she said, crouching down.  The girl, still a bit shy, regarded her cautiously.

“Is your grandmum about?” she asked.  Gehva silently pointed toward the kitchen.

Rajiya smiled at the girl and went that way.  Sure enough, her mother was in the kitchen, preparing what Rajiya would call supper but what, for Keepers, was closer to breakfast.  She was chopping vegetables and mixing soup, but she knew the instant Rajiya stepped through the door all the same.

“There you are,” she said, flicking her ears backward without turning her head.  “Took you long enough to get here!  Put your things down and help me peel these.”  She shoved a bowl of popotoes in Rajiya’s direction along with a paring knife, and the vaunted Warrior of Light could only grin crookedly at her mother’s direction.  She dropped her packs in the corner of the kitchen and got to work.

“Gehva’s growing fast,” Rajiya commented after a moment.  “Does she help you with the gardening?”

“Help is a strong word,” her mother replied wryly.  “Oftentimes she’ll dig up something that shouldn’t have been, but she’s learning.”

“Cute,” Rajiya said, brow furrowing as she worked around the eyes of another popoto, getting the last tiny bits of peel off.

“When are you going to have one of your own?” her mother asked, and the question startled enough that the knife slipped in Rajiya’s hand, very nearly grazing her skin.  Only her instincts managed to avoid a cut.

“Mother,” Rajiya said sternly.

“Don’t you take that tone with me,” her mother replied stubbornly.  “I don’t want to hear it.  You’re several years past due, even!  Did you know Khuma is pregnant?” her mother fixed her with a level stare, and Rajiya tried and failed not to wilt under her gaze.  “You shouldn’t wait much longer.”

“You know I’m in no place to have a child,” Rajiya said stubbornly, to hide the other arguments bubbling up in the back of her head.   _I don’t want to have a child.  Not now, maybe not ever._

“Make your lieutenants or whatever they are take over for you and spend a year in Gridania,” her mother pressed.  “Just have the child and I’ll raise it, if that’s what it takes.”

“ _No_ , mother,” Rajiya said even more forcefully.  “That wouldn’t be fair–”

“Plenty of the girls in the Wood Wailers and Gods’ Quiver do it,” her mother retorted, as if she’d already predicted that argument.

“Well, I don’t think that Weaver–”

“That hyuran boy you’re infatuated with?” her mother replied, a hint of disdain in her tone.  “If he’s not accepting enough to understand that you might lie with a Keeper boy to have a child, he shouldn’t have taken up with you in the first place.”

“Mother!” Rajiya said, anger bubbling in her chest for the first time.  “I’m not  _infatuated_  with him.  We’re  _bonded_!  We had a ceremony in the Sanctum and everything.”

Her mother sniffed in clear disapproval.

“There are things I can do that others can’t,” she continued.  “So no, I’m not going to have a child.  Not until Eorzea is at peace.”

“Eorzea might never be at peace,” her mother said crisply.

“Exactly,” Rajiya said, and stabbed forcefully at another popoto as their conversation dwindled to nothing.

* * *

It was later the same evening that Rajiya went looking for her father, a bag of snacks in tow.  She knew that the best way to get and keep Thya’a’s attention was to bring food, though he was usually happy to spend time with her anyway.

They had what was perhaps a bit of an odd relationship, for Keepers–most Keeper men didn’t have involved relationships with their children after they were born.  However, Rajiya had apparently inherited all of Thya’a’s skill with a bow and had worked alongside him in the Gods’ Quiver before the Calamity, so the two had grown close.

Fortunately, her father wasn’t out on patrol.  One of the bowmen pointed her toward a back room at the guild, and she all but stormed back there.

He seemed to know it was her before she even appeared, and raised an eyebrow, sweeping off his hunting cap with a sigh.  “And what,” he said at last, “brings one of my daughters here, stomping like a buffalo and like to explode with rage?”

She sighed as she got closer and held out the bag of snacks before speaking.  “Mother.”

“Ah,” he said, taking the bag from her.  “Lady troubles.  Wouldn’t have expected it from a daughter, but…”

His tone, laced with just enough humor, made her crack a grin, and she huffed out a bit of a laugh as she sat down on a nearby bench.  He sat next to her, digging through the bag.

“Hmm…I see walnuts, and cookies, and…what’s this?” he said, holding up something and squinting at it.

“Doman rice cracker,” she said in reply.  “They’re spicy.  I think you might like it.”

He popped it in his mouth and his ears twitched in delight at the flavor.  He hunted for another as he spoke.  “So, what has your mother done now?”

“She wants me to have a child…” Rajiya gave her father a brief explanation before sighing.  Her tail beat restlessly against the bench and she hunched her shoulders, acting like a scolded child rather than a famous warrior.  “I just don’t understand.  I don’t know that I ever want children, and I certainly can’t have one now, not when I’m running around fighting primals and gods only know what else.”

Thya’a sat back, rummaging around in the bag and coming up with a walnut.  He examined it for a couple of seconds before speaking.  “Your mother is worried.”  With that statement, he bit down hard on the walnut with his back teeth, cracking the shell.

“Worried?” Rajiya said, confused.  “Worried about what?”

“Rajiya…” he said, pausing to spit out a few fragments of the walnut’s shell.  “When you went to Carteneau, and afterward, when we got word of what had happened and when the Adders trailed back without you, we thought the worst.  We grieved for you.  We were certain you’d died, blown to ash by the dreadwyrm.  And then, five years later, you show up on your mother’s doorstep looking like a ghost.  Suddenly, the mourning we’d done five years ago was fresh in our minds again, like someone had ripped open an old wound.  You fled, and your mother panicked, and it wasn’t until you trailed back months later that she finally started to heal from that second wound.”

Rajiya winced.  It painted her in a fairly unflattering light.

“Now, you’re not to blame for the Calamity, the dreadwyrm, or any of the rest, save maybe for haring off to Limsa when your mother thought she’d seen a ghost,” he said.  “But at the same time, your mother thought you were gone.  Her bravest daughter, gone in a flash, with nothing to remember you by except the trinkets you’d left at her house.  And now, with everything we hear about you–from the Adders, from the bards, from your own mouth?  She’s worried it’ll happen again.”

“That still doesn’t mean I should have a child,” Rajiya managed to say weakly.  She was clinging to that, even though her father’s words made a lot of sense.

“You’re right,” he said without reservation, which surprised her just a bit.  “But I thought some explanation of your mother’s thought process might clear some things up.  But I think something else might, too.”  He looked around the room, which was nothing so much as a sort of overlarge dining and common area, and finally jerked his chin toward a Keeper man sitting by the large fireplace on one side of the room.  “See him?”

Rajiya followed the motion of her father’s head and saw a stately fellow, probably ten years her father’s senior if not more.  His appearance was nice enough, if not particularly memorable; he had the ashy-grey skin and pale hair common to many Keepers, a trim beard, a leanly muscled physique.

“Yes,” Rajiya replied.  “What about him?”

“He’s twelve years older than me,” Thya’a confirmed, after pausing to crack open another walnut with his teeth.  “No children.”

“None?” Rajiya asked.  “Well, I mean, does he just prefer men or–”

“No, that’s not it,” Thya’a said.  “Natural singleton.  He’s not particularly interested in carnal pleasures at all, nor really in relationships– _romantic_  ones, mind you, he’s got plenty of friends.  Hell, he even gets along with the elezen better than most of us.  And it’s not for lack of attention–he’s let plenty of women down gently, and he’s a decent sort.”

Rajiya looked toward the other man again, in quiet, somewhat awed reflection.

“He just prefers being alone,” her father said.  “And me?  Eleven children with seven different women, two of them sons, and another child on the way.”  He crunched loudly, almost obnoxiously loudly on a rice cracker.  “Sometimes I tell Rheki’to that I’m making up for him, and we laugh about it.”

She grinned, crookedly.  “That sounds about right.  Why tell me this?”

“Because,” he said pointedly, “no matter what your mother tells you, there are plenty of Keepers out there–in Gridania, outside Gridania, hell, probably across the ocean even–that don’t want children, or don’t have them ‘til they’re old enough it’s a gamble.  There’s plenty out there that have too  _many_  children.  There’s all kinds of people out there, and don’t let her make you believe that you’re out of line because you don’t match up with what most do.”  He put the bag of snacks down and reached out to put a hand on his daughter’s shoulder, a look of noted care and concern in his gaze.  “Your mother is worried, but that doesn’t excuse her for trying to push you into something you don’t want.  Just try to understand why she is, but keep doing what you want.  In the end, you’re a credit to us, to Gridania, to Eorzea–and I’m not just saying that because I’m your father.  Your deeds will mark you, not whatever children you do or don’t leave behind.”

Her eyes stung with tears, but she managed a smile.  “Gods.  Did you become a bard while I was gone?”

Thya’a grinned and picked up the bag of snacks again.  “No,” he said, “but I like to hear all those lovely songs about one of my own daughters.  Maybe some of it’s rubbed off on me.”


End file.


He awoke with a groan…. Though when he listened closer, it sounded more like a canine whimper. He blinked.

 

Wait a minute, wasn't he supposed to be _dead?_ Did he not fall in the Praetorium? What had happened?

 

He decided that, if he wanted answers, he needed to see himself. He was near the reflective Silvertear Lake. He could at least force his weary body to walk a few ilms…

 

He grunted as his first few attempts failed rather miserably. He must've suffered severe wounds, which would make sense. The Adventurers who had aided the Alliance in assaulting the Castrum Meridianum as a whole had been quite ruthless. He was the Legatus; it would make sense that he would take a thorough thrashing. However, he was stubborn, and managed to finally force himself onto his feet…. And already, he had a feeling something was wrong.

 

He felt shorter than normal. He stumbled a few times. He felt… _off._ And it was all very unnerving. But none of this could have prepared him for what he would see upon gazing into the reflective crystals.

 

For staring back at him was a black wolf, with emerald green eyes, a third eye, and many a battle scar. As well as little black leather bands around his ankles and a black leather collar with a little wolf tag.

 

He stared for a good few moments, before daring to lift a forepaw and touch the crystal. He shivered, feeling the cold of the crystal on his paw pad. Yes, this was real.

 

Gaius van Baelsar, (former) Legatus of the Garlean Empire's XIVth Legion, the Black Wolf… had been turned into… well… _a black wolf._ The irony could not be much greater. He huffed, and sat on his haunches.

 

_What to do now? I look like some sort of tamed pet… How humiliating…_

 

“Well, what do we have here? Are you lost?”

 

Gaius turned to see none other than Cid looking at him, with a smile on his face. The traitor reached down and scratched his head… and the former Legatus had to admit, it felt good. He couldn’t resist leaning in, begging for more. It felt so good, the calloused, rough, strong hands brushing through his fur… if he was a cat, he'd no doubt be purring by now. His canine instincts took hold, and he moved over by Cid, laying down over his boots. He eventually fell asleep, content with the sensation of his head being scratched….

* * *

 

He next awoke to the familiar smell of ceruleum, machine oil, a furnace, and metal…. All of which were hitting him much stronger and in much more depth than he remembered… Oh. Right. He was a _wolf_ now. Wolves had a better sense of smell than man. Nonetheless, the scents were somewhat reassuring to him by their familiarity. But with the Praetorium taken down… he must be in Cid’s workshop, he realized. He stretched out, yawning and letting out a distinctly canine sound.

 

“Awake now, are you? Did you enjoy your nap?”

 

Gaius nodded as he stood up. He stretched, letting the sensations help him understand this new form further. He walked on over to a pile of firmly interlocked scrap, climbed up it, and looked around. The two shop hands Cid had were gone… it was just the two of them…

 

“I know it's you, Gaius.”

 

The former Legatus turned and looked at Cid. Of course he would figure out it was him. Cid’s third eye would recognize his aetheric signature, no matter what his exterior form was.

 

“I'd ask how you were turned into a _wolf_ of all things, but one, you can't exactly talk like that, and two, I have an idea anyways.”

 

The former Legatus looked towards Cid.

 

“And when I say idea, I really mean ‘some vague idea that not even the Scions understand how it all works’. To put it bluntly, you were likely cursed.”

 

If there was ever a way to say a wolf had a deadpanning expression, Gaius had it nailed. Cid shrugged his shoulders.

 

“I'm serious. There’s been some vengeful woman around lately, cursing anyone with a third eye, if you get what I mean. The curse forces them to be turned into animals, lose their voices, but retain their normal intellect and mentality. You’re trapped in the body of an animal, unable to do anything but try to get by.” He explained. Gaius laid down to express his distaste. He thought for a moment, looking around… he couldn’t just make motions with his newfound body and noises and hope Cid would understand. Then, he got an idea.

 

He got up, and grabbed a roll of paper with his mouth. Cid initially panicked, but the wolf paid him no heed as he grabbed a pencil. He kicked the roll of paper out a bit, and, pencil in mouth, began to write.

 

 _Will this do?_ He wrote. Cid laughed.

 

“I would expect no less from you, Gaius! Ingenious!” He exclaimed.

 

_Not so loud, Cid! I have a wolf’s hearing now too! I could have heard that halfway across Mor Dhona!_

 

Cid scratched his head awkwardly.

 

“Oh, right. Sorry. Well, anyway… I know Nero’s alive… what about Livia? And what’s his name…”

 

 _The only death I can confirm is Rhytania’s. If Nero is alive, then Livia may very well be alive. Which is most unfortunate, if this woman gets to them first._ He told Cid. The engineer frowned.

 

“You’re right. Finding them will be even more difficult if they’ve already been cursed. I’m trying to think of what animals they would become… I mean, Nero’s a crafty little shite, so maybe a fox…” He trailed.

 

_If Nero would be a fox, then Livia would be a torama or a coeurl. Deadly, swift, vicious hunters who also happen to be somewhat alluring._

 

“Foxes are a bit of a rarity in Eorzea, but coeurls are very common in La Noscea. We'll have to be sure to watch for third eyes on wild animals… strange as that sounds.” Cid decided.

 

_Strange indeed. This woman has yet to come after you?_

 

“Maybe she's giving me a free pass because I've been helping Eorzea? I don't know; I suppose I've just been lucky.” He admitted.

 

_Luck is like the wind. You never know when it will change._

 

“Tell me about it.”

 

Cid sighed.

 

“I guess I'll have to prepare to keep some pets in here.”

 

Gaius growled, annoyed, and eventually settled down underneath a table for a nap.

 

Damn it all to the seventh hell.


End file.

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> Thanks to Rhodeswesterfeld for providing some constructive criticism! I'll keep it in mind as I write!

The sun had only set a bell ago, blanketing Castrum Meridianum in a pitch-black night. The shift had just changed, and thus, did the now-off-duty soldiers head off to eat, sleep, or do whatever. And yet, she was nervous.

 

She didn’t appear to be all that remarkable. She wore a standard uniform, like every other Imperial grunt. She was just another Hyur Medicus. Or, at least, that’s what she thought she had everyone convinced of, but a summons to Lady Livia’s private quarters that night had her worrying to the contrary.

 

After eating her fair share, she walked nervously to the Tribunus’ quarters, head down. If she acted submissive and repentant, mayhaps there would be some degree of mercy…

 

She knocked on the door softly.

 

_ “Who is there?” _

 

“...Geneva aan Obscura, milady. As you asked.”

 

_ “Enter then, before I lose any more patience than I already have regarding you.” _

 

“...As you wish.”

 

Geneva entered, the door closing behind her. Livia was still in her armor, save for the helm. Were she not so completely and utterly terrified, she would actually probably dare to try to kiss those full lips, or tangle her fingers in that long, golden blonde hair in the midst of a passionate lovemaking session. As it was, all Geneva could manage was a hint of nervous shifting. It was only made worse when she saw Livia holding a whip in her right hand. 

 

“I will not mince words, Medicus. Would you care to tell me  _ why  _ you decided to keep the fact that you have the  _ Echo  _ a  _ secret  _ from your  _ commanding officers?!” _

 

“...I am a Medicus, one of many. We are meant to be behind the line, supporting from afar. I want to treat wounds… not inflict them. I knew if I revealed such information…”

 

“...You would be made to inflict harm, even though you likely would fail  _ miserably  _ at it. Reasons aside, you deceived a commanding officer….”

 

She cracked the whip through the air, earning a squeak from Geneva.

 

“And now, you must be  _ punished  _ for your transgression. Get on your knees, and strip down.”

 

“...As my lady commands.”

 

Geneva did as told, eyes closing, bracing for what she knew was coming. She cried out as Livia cracked the whip across her back, and though it would undoubtedly leave a nasty scar, much to her surprise, the Echo seized the soldier...

* * *

 

_ And that’s when she saw it. Livia crying amongst flames, separated from her sister, lost and confused. An opportunity that was seized by Gaius-the Black Wolf taking her in under his wing, despite the fact he was not much older than her, and thus did she follow him with a most fervent loyalty. It was obvious who Livia really was, underneath her harsh, cruel words and short temper. _

 

_ A scared, lonely, depressed little girl who just needed some love. _

 

_ And that was something Geneva could most definitely provide. _

* * *

 

“...What. Did. You. See.”

 

It was Livia, growling. She must have fainted, Geneva realized. The Garlean grabbed Geneva by her face, snarling and baring those terrifying vampiric fangs. She supposed it was now or never. She was alone with her, after all-

 

Livia was caught off guard when the Midlander leapt up and suddenly  _ embraced  _ her, as if embracing a close friend. She looked with half-hearted disgust at the suddenly-affectionate woman.

 

“What… What do you think you’re doing?!”

 

“Giving you what you really want.”

 

Livia pulled her hand back, clenching it into a fist-

 

“You lost everything. Your home, your family, your friends… all gone in the blink of an eye. So, you latched onto the man you perceived as a savior-Lord Gaius. I hardly blame you… I would have done the same.” 

 

Livia began to tremble. What… what was this strange  _ warmth  _ coming over her…

 

Oh no.

Of all the times…

 

“But you hold power, and there are expectations set as a result… so, you put up a facade…”

 

Livia was quickly being overwhelmed-by the harsh truth of the aan’s words and the sudden surge of lust… damn it all, of all the times…

 

“Milady, are you alright-”

 

Suddenly, Geneva found herself pulled into a lustful kiss, startling the Hyur. She then was thrown onto the bed, a feral growl coming from her commanding officer. Geneva understood quickly…

 

Livia was in heat. 

 

As the Garlean crawled over her, she could see the sweat on Livia’s brow, the woman already panting even though Geneva hadn’t laid a hand on her in that way. Sweat stained the black bodysuit underneath the armor… she must be miserable. Oh, how she’d be beaten for this later, probably… but Livia needed help, and there was only one way to relieve a Garlean’s heat. 

 

“Shut up… get it off…”

 

Livia could barely manage the words. It was unnerving to the Medicus-why was her heat so intense? She'd never seen so much sweat… but to be fair, her only real knowledge of pure-blooded Garleans (and more specifically, their ways of breeding) came from books and courses that were required for every Medicus to have read and taken.

 

Livia began trying to remove the constricting plate, but her hands trembled too much. Geneva assisted as best she could, dwarfed by the Imperial woman. Piece by piece it came off, being tossed to the side unceremoniously, and then Geneva blinked upon a startling realization.

 

Livia was a hermaphrodite. 

 

So she was enduring  _ both  _ female and male heat, at the same time. 

 

No  _ wonder  _ she was sweating like she was. And no small wonder she was so  _ very  _ reserved. Her kind were rare, and often labelled mistakes. Verbal abuse would have been the least of the Tribunus’s worries if the wrong person found out. But the psychological effects of what she was were not important right now-her  _ physiological  _ status was  _ far  _ more important.

 

Geneva knew she had to hurry-a Garlean in one type of heat was already unstable enough, but a hermaphrodite was  _ dangerous.  _ Unstable. Willing to do  _ anything  _ to sate their endless lust. And yet, Geneva was a virgin. She'd never even  _ watched  _ sex, she'd never once even touched herself-

 

The Hyur let out a sharp cry as Livia mounted her with force, startling her. Oh, seven hells, she had never felt so  _ full _ in her life! Something began to burn within her… damn it all, she'd forgotten all about a male Garlean in heat… the males would give off a collection of pheromones to increase the arousal of nearby eligible females, as well as increasing pleasure and fertility. And given that Livia had both in one, the cycles were building off one another… 

 

The vampiress wouldn't last long. 

 

Geneva barely had time to recover from the penetration before an assault on her throat began-the heat-stricken Tribunus was laying vicious claim to her subordinate, biting and sucking on white skin until skin bruised, embedding her scent. By now, Livia had lost control, her hands having long since turned to white, scale-covered talons, feet meeting the same fate, white scales littering the pale body, white, bat-like wings unveiled and tense, heart-tipped whitish tail flicking about.. And blood-red eyes staring into her very soul.

 

Livia matched her bruising claiming of Geneva’s neck with powerful thrusts, each one going in deeper than the last, eliciting moans of pure pleasure from the Midlander. Livia’s talons pinned Geneva at her wrists, all the while the Hyur writhed and squirmed, experiencing a wealth of new sensations. She couldn’t describe it… it was painful, as Livia felt  _ massive  _ inside of her, and yet, she wanted… no, she  _ needed  _ more. 

 

Geneva’s sense of coherence was quickly being lost to her-replaced with thoughts of pure lust, pure  _ need.  _ The urge to be fucked utterly  _ senseless,  _ to be bred, to bear her Beta’s clutch… to be the perfect Omega. Her body was rapidly succumbing to her mate’s influence-razor-sharp talons that matched Livia’s, an arrowheaded white tail, and bat-like wings… all perfect means of defending her clutches….

 

Livia let out a low, feral moan as she came, thrusting forward, driving herself in as deep as she could, laying claim to her Omega’s virgin womb and flooding it with her seed. Geneva responded moments later with a sharp, delirious cry, clenching around and sealing in the seed. The climax was enough to sober Livia to a degree… and she snarled, realizing what her instincts had driven her to do. She pulled out of Geneva, and pulled a cloak over herself, before tossing one to Geneva.

 

“Milady…?”

 

“Shut up. We’re finishing what my wretched instincts started.”

 

“Then, that means…”

 

“You’re going to be initiated into Lord Gaius’ pack as my Omega. Now, get moving.”

 

Geneva nodded, and got up, placing the cloak around herself. She followed her Beta, heart racing as she slipped into her first proper heat….


	2. To Be An Omega

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> The aftermath of Livia's heat starts...

Livia led Geneva to a room she’d never seen before, only hearing of it amongst the Medicii. A room built into every major Imperial fortress, deep inside the heart of the building. A place where all rank and file was shed, in favor of natural order. A secret hideaway, where one could see the core pack unveiled.

 

The Cunabulum, also known as the Cradle. A place where pairs mated like the feral creatures they were, breeding and continuing the Garlean line. A place where gravid Omegas would hide away, safe and secure. A place where nestlings were born and spent their nursing days. 

 

It was quite warm in the dark room, slightly humid, floor and walls covered in lush, soft cushioning. Pillows and other soft objects were laid about. And this was what she could experience as of now-only half-turned.

 

“I can only assume that she is here for one reason…”

 

Geneva’s heart leapt into her throat at the deep voice. Powerful footsteps could be heard, and she looked up to see  _ him.  _

 

Gaius van Baelsar. Legatus of the XIVth Legion, Viceroy of Ala Mhigo, famed Black Wolf, and Alpha of the XIVth Pack. An intimidating man all around, with piercing red eyes, black canine ears, ebony sharp claws, a black wolf’s tail, and  _ immense  _ fur-like black wings-more like some sort of twisted angel than Livia’s in shape. 

 

Said Beta knelt before Gaius.

 

“Indeed, my Lord. Though I admit it was all a matter of the heat of the moment…”

 

Gaius chuckled.

 

“She is more than qualified for the role of an Omega…”

 

His hand came to rest ever so gently on the half-turned’s cheek; sending a shiver down her spine. 

 

“She  _ did  _ excel in her training… she at least has  _ read  _ what she needs to know. She is also gentle, yet firm… the perfect fit for raising a brood.”

 

He then pulled her close and high, granting him access to the other side of her neck, while he moved quickly to take Livia and sate her feminine need. Said Beta got on her hands and knees, while the half-turned Omega reached her hands around the back of the Legatus’s neck. As he thrusted wildly into Livia, eliciting lustful moans from the Beta, he bit down into Geneva’s neck. 

 

He drew out the last remnants of her humanity; crimson staining his mouth as she went limp for but a moment in his arms. He then injected her with what was known as The Catalyst-a venom unique to Alphas that finished a turning process after starting. The venom only took mere seconds to take effect-senses heightened to a near-painful degree, and the trademark fangs of either type of Garlean (pure-blooded or turned) forced her old canines out of place. Her eyes shot open for a brief time before she collapsed…

* * *

 

Geneva awoke with a mad thirst. A hand offered forth something red, and she drank greedily. After several minutes, she realized what the coppery taste in her mouth was, and she looked back to see Livia near her, stroking her head. The natural-born Garlean smiled, stopping as soon as her mate was fully awake.

 

“You were unconscious for a whole week. Another Medicus looked over you, and you're already carrying a clutch. A rather large one, might I add-a clutch of  _ eight. _ There is rampant concern for you.” 

 

Geneva stared at Livia in disbelief.

 

_ “Eight?!  _ B-but how?! I… I didn't think I could possibly be that fertile!” She stammered. Livia shrugged.

 

“The theory is that, because I went for so many years without an Omega to breed, my seed had nowhere to go. So, each cycle, what wasn't released from my own attempts to relieve myself, simply accumulated within me. Then, I  _ finally  _ got to breed you… and your body just  _ took it all.  _ I've never felt so relieved in my  _ life _ , if I am to be truthful.”

 

Geneva couldn't even begin to imagine such an existence-something trapped within you, wanting freedom, but it seemed so hopeless….

 

“Eep!”

 

Her idle musing was interrupted by Livia pulling her onto her lap, but still keeping her away from her abdomen. The Medicus-turned-Omega quickly realized why-Livia had her own clutch to protect. Gingerly, she laid a hand on the pure-blood’s stomach, which earned a growl and a a grab on the wrist. She looked up to see Livia looking..  _ Nervous.  _ Dare she even  _ think  _ it…  **_worried?_ **

 

“Milady-”

 

“Enough with that. We’re clearly past the point of Tribunus and subordinate… Obscura.” 

 

Geneva was rendered silent. She stared in shock and awe.

 

“...Then what would you have me call you?” 

 

“...Knowing you, you will insist on some sort of honorific… so, Lady Livia.”

 

“Well then… Lady Livia…” Heavens, she felt so  _ nervous  _ calling Livia by her first name, but the lack of a backhand confirmed that she was okay doing so, “Have you… had problems before?”

 

A nod.

 

“Almost every damned time. I’ve never carried a clutch to full term. One time, I went into labor three months early. They thought that both the children and I were going to  _ die- _ me from the blood loss, and the children from softshells.” 

 

That was never something a Medicus or a gravid Garlean parent wanted to hear. Softshelling was exactly what it sounded like-the eggs had soft shells, which was almost always a guaranteed sign of premature delivery. That would mean the hatchlings were underdeveloped, which increased risk of death. Softshelled eggs often had thin shells, which left the hatchlings vulnerable to death via complications such as hypothermia or hyperthermia. And even if the hatchlings  _ endured  _ all of that, softshelled eggs had leathery shells that would be difficult to penetrate, which would lead to death from suffocation. And that was only was awaited the  _ children. _

 

A clutch developed within a sac that was made from a concoction of hormones, special fluids, and blood. Normally, as the term finished, the blood was separated and absorbed back into the body. Premature delivery, however, did not give the body the chance to reabsorb the blood, and thus, there was a risk for death from severe blood loss. And death from any remote form of exsanguination was  _ especially  _ painful for a Garlean… or, at least, so she'd read. 

 

It all made sense. Geneva sighed heavily. 

 

“Do you think… mayhaps… somehow, your pent-up seed interfered with your ability to carry a clutch to full term?” She wondered. Livia shrugged.

 

“You're the Medicus, you tell me.”

 

Geneva shrugged.

 

“There aren't nearly enough hermaphrodites to say for certain… but I would imagine it's a possibility.”

 

“So even  _ you  _ don't know. I suppose we'll find out if you're right soon enough.”

 

A tired nod.

 

“I suppose we will.” 


	3. Symptoms

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> Life continues for Livia and her Omega, complete with a hint of excitement and self-musing...

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> HEY Y'ALL I DIDN'T ABANDON THIS. Also shutout to the wonderful Rhodeswesterfield who has been giving me feedback to help me make these dorks' misadventures even BETTER.

Livia was quickly finding that tending to the needs of a gravid mate whilst being in any position of power was quite the balancing game. Lord Gaius had made it look all too easy with her… but it clearly was not,  _ especially  _ given that her bond with her Omega was still quite new. Newer pairs tended to make for  _ much  _ clinger Omegas/Betas than older and much more established pairs, and that meant that Geneva would  _ not  _ let Livia out of her sight… or rather, her scent range. That wasn't to say that Livia herself wasn't still the protective one, however, she was still a Tribunus, and thus still had her duties… so she improvised.

 

Geneva followed her like a shadow, and carried with her a soft nesting bed. Given her own pregnancy, Livia was currently exempt from combat duty, but she still had  _ plenty  _ of paperwork to do. They’d developed a ritual very quickly-they woke up in the late morning, fed, gathered themselves, and headed to Livia’s office. Upon arrival, Geneva would set herself up so that she could see Livia and yet still be out of the way, then, she’d settle in and oftentimes, take a nap. Scent was even more powerful for Garleans both born and turned than sight, and it wasn’t as if the natural-born Garlean didn’t occasionally take breaks and cuddle up with her Omega… not to mention the occasional need for breaks to feed as well.

 

Today started off as usual for the pair. Rising, feeding, walking, and Geneva settling in for her nap. Her soft snores were like soothing background noise for Livia, and sometimes, she’d let herself smile. She did today-a genuine, small, soft smile as she worked. Geneva had grown much larger than she had by this point-Livia had just recently gotten to having to switch to her maternity clothing, but Geneva had been in hers for at least a full moon by now. Soft robes of whatever color that was desired-naturally, white was chosen in light of Livia’s armor. 

 

The soft snores filled the room as the Tribunus worked hard-

__

__ Suddenly, a coughing, sputtering sound filled the room, as if Geneva was trying to hold back something, caused Livia to abandon her work and dart to Geneva’s side. She could barely get behind her and hold her up before the Omega proceeded to vomit… all over the floor. Worry filling her, Livia pulled her away from the scene, and then looked around. She then spotted two Laquerii and a Medicus walking around.

 

“You lot!” She shouted. The trio immediately snapped to attention, saluting the Tribunus. 

 

“Get up here, and carry my Omega to the infirmary! Now!” She barked, and, not wishing to arouse her wrath, they were quick to obey her. She followed closely behind, protective instincts driving her.

Livia paced impatiently outside the exam room. Due to “standard procedure”, they’d insisted Livia stay outside the room, and the wait was  _ maddening.  _ She was losing patience fast, and was half-tempted to just take matters into her own hands-

 

“Err… are you Miss Obscura’s mate-”

 

The poor Medicus could barely finish her sentence before Livia darted up to her and grabbed her by her collar. Clearly, this idiot was a transfer from another Legion to  _ not  _ realize who Livia was...

 

“I’ll… I’ll take that as a yes….”

 

“So, what did you learn?! Is it anything serious?!” Livia demanded.

 

“Th-there were no signs of any external illness… the conclusion is… it was just a bout of morning sickness!” The Medicus stammered.

 

Ah, right… of course. Livia remembered contending with it during her first few pregnancies. Seemingly-random instances of uncontrolled vomiting, with no real rhyme or reason to it. It was sometimes casually referred to as “morning sickness”... though where that name came from, Livia would  _ never  _ understand, as she vomited at all times of the day when she had to deal with it. But the nausea was not the biggest problem.

 

A gravid Omega or Beta was capable of producing a volatile substance that was known for being able to eat through  _ metal  _ because it was so acidic. It was an excellent deterrent-one’s  _ face melting off  _ was usually quite effective at discouraging any future attempts at threatening the defending Garlean. No harm would ever come to the producer’s own insides-the moment an Omega or Beta first conceived, they also produced a resilient lining that the acid couldn’t eat through-but  _ anything  _ else was not so lucky. Thankfully, they stopped actively producing the acid about three to four months after their hatchlings… well, hatched, as usually by then, the hatchlings’ eyes would have been open for a few weeks, and their claws and fangs would be hard enough to allow for some fair degree of self-defense. And then, production would restart the moment they next conceived. Livia groaned.

 

“Of bloody fucking  _ course _ it’s just morning sickness...” She cursed under her breath, dropping the terrified Medicus on his arse, before running her hands through her hair, inhaling deeply. It was reassuring to know it was simply morning sickness, but at the same time, Livia was cursing the fact that she had yet  _ another _ thing to worry about. 

 

“Gather a team to clean up and repair my office. I'll take Obscura now.” She ordered.

 

“Right away, milady!”

 

The poor Medicus was all too eager to get away from the protective Beta. Mere moments later, Geneva was brought out, and she cuddled up to Livia.

 

“You scared the poor thing…” She muttered, drowsy.

 

“Patience was never one of my strongest suits.” Livia admitted. 

 

“I‘m sorry for throwing up in the office and interrupting your work…” 

 

Livia shook her head.

 

“You of all people should know that it couldn't be helped. Don't fault yourself.” She assured. 

 

“I‘m still sorry.” Geneva muttered. Livia ran a soothing hand down her back.

 

“If anything, it was a welcome diversion. Think about it this way-I won't be able to go in there while it's being repaired, and I'm off combat duty due to my own clutch… we'll be able to spend all the time in the world together…”

 

Geneva was clearly too exhausted to continue standing on her own, as she was quick to fall asleep, right into Livia's arms. Livia sighed-she couldn't just heft her former subordinate over her shoulder, lest either of them be injured or stressed enough to enter premature labor…

 

“I'll carry her back. She needs her rest, as do you. I heard today was quite eventful.”

 

Livia turned back slightly, beaming at the sight of none other than Gaius himself. The Legatus strode over, and easily picked up the slumbering Omega. She seemed to stir slightly, but was quick to resettle upon seeing it was the pack’s Alpha cradling her. Soft snores once again filled the room, and both of the conscious Garleans chuckled softly. They both turned and left, heading back to the Cradle for the night.

When Livia awoke the next morning, she felt warmth covering her-and she smiled softly at the sight of a fast-asleep Geneva, face buried in the crook of her neck, legs intertwined and trapped with the Omega’s tail. Said Omega was making a noise somewhere between a soothing, gentle purr and a snore. Livia shifted the Omega ever-so-slightly, allowing her to envelop her mate with her large, powerful wings and scale-covered arms. She closed her eyes, and her mind began to wander.

 

A full-term, healthy clutch, at long last? A dream so wild now seemed to be within reach. And being the sire of another clutch? Maybe she could  _ finally  _ stop feeling so internally insecure about her… status as a hermaphrodite. Someone  _ besides  _ Lord Gaius being so accepting of it… another wild dream, now coming true. 

  
Sure, it had happened in the heat of the moment (pun not intended, that was  _ Nero's  _ job), but taking and claiming someone she once thought as nothing more than simple death fodder as her mate was proving to be one of the  _ best  _ decisions she'd  _ ever  _ made. 

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> MWAHAHAHAHA CLIFFHANGER ENDING! I honestly wasn't sure where to go with these two by themselves from here... so stay tuned for the next fic, involving Nero!


End file.


Doma, freshly liberated. Celebrations were wild. Finally, after years of oppression, she was free from Garlean rule. Though there would be mourning for the fallen later, the here and now was joyous. But the exhausted Warrior of Light had elected to retreat to her quarters and sleep, and the Xaela had returned to the Azim Steppe, no doubt intending to celebrate in their own way.

 

Drinks were being served and consumed. The food was grand. Lyse and Alisaie were enjoying the respite-

 

Suddenly, the earth trembled violently, followed by a deafening roar that pierced the night. Lyse and Alisaie tensed, drawing their weapons-

 

“Look to the sky! The Dragon made of White Diamond flies free!” Yugiri exclaimed.

 

“What?! How?! That was supposed to be a mere story!” Hien demanded, looking up. His eyes widened in horror.

 

“Kami help us all… if that really is the Dragon of White Diamond…” He whispered.

 

“Dragon of White Diamond? What are you all talking about?!” Lyse demanded. 

 

“It's an old Doman tale. Millennia ago, supposedly, the Dragon of White Diamond, along with the other Dragons of Diamond, rampaged all over the world, kidnapping and killing. It all seemed hopeless, until a small band of heroes led an assault on the White Diamond Quarry. Through a mighty struggle, they defeated and sealed her away, though at a bloody price. And when they challenged the others, they succeeded, one by one, but more and more blood was shed, until only one young woman, a princess at that, remained.” Hien began.

 

“She ordered the tale to be written and told until the end of time. Later, she received a vision, which she recorded as a prophecy.” Yugiri added.

 

“A prophecy? Do you remember how it went?” Lyse asked.

 

“Quite well. My mother drilled it into my skull…”

 

Hien cleared his throat.

 

“ _ Champions of afar shall shatter the chains of steel. The children of steel shall flee henceforth, and all will seem well. But the blood spilled shall taint the land, and a fortnight later, during the full moon, they shall break free from their prison thought eternal. So shall they take their vengeance, and all the world will know the wrath of the Dragons of Diamond. But hope will yet shine in Red, and the White shall change henceforth.”  _

 

“Talk about a morbid prophecy…” Lyse muttered.

 

“What could it mean? The first half was obviously referred to us coming and the Xaela helping free Doma from Garlean rule, and then it says the blood shed broke some kind of seal, but what could the rest of it mean?” Alisaie wondered.

 

“It’s safe to say that the Dragons of Diamond won’t be too pleased after several millennia of confinement. They’ve had too much time to brood and dwell on the sins committed against their kind… whatever those sins are.” Hien pointed out. Alphinaud frowned.

 

“Why do I have a feeling it is the Dragonsong War all over again…”

* * *

 

She arrived in the Quarry… her Quarry. Ruined by the flesh-children… all as she remembered it. Such disgusting, selfish, pathetic creatures… But at least they could be rendered useful and atone for their sins by recreating what they so readily destroyed… she smirked, fangs showing. 

 

**_“RISE, MY CHILDREN! YOUR DIAMOND HATH RETURNED!”_ **

 

The few intact gems within the Quarry responded to the call of their Diamond, and came forth, light shining from the gems as they awoke, taking their animal forms. Rubies in the forms of predators, Rose Quartzes in the shapes of nursing beasts, and Sapphires in the shapes of birds… all knelt before their Diamond.

 

**_“You all know what to do… Go forth! The time has come for the flesh-children to REPENT!”_ **

 

A chorus of delighted cries, and the Rubies took off into the night, while the Sapphires began to restore the Quarry, while the Roses shapeshifted into varying forms of Spoken, before slipping out into the night as well. When her throne was restored, she laid down upon it, an evil smirk coming across her face. She closed her eyes, and shivered in delight at the mere  _ thought _ of countless mortals at the mercy of those they once sought to use as war-slaves… It was so very  _ wonderful.  _

  
**_“All is fair in war… But I must wonder… what hath the mortals done in our absence?”_** She mused softly. 


	2. Stowaway

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> Lyse and company return to Eorzea, the thought of this mysterious new threat heavy on their minds. Upon arrival, a seemingly-skittish stowaway is discovered... but all is not as it seems...

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> HEY GUYS I AM ALIVE

“Cap’n, Cap’n! There's a problem!”

 

Carvellain turned to see one of his deckhands running towards him, panting heavily. They had returned to Limsa after the haul to the Ruby Sea, safe and sound, though troubled at the revelation of the White Diamond Dragon’s release. And now, one of Carvellain’s deckhands had come running, with some sort of news, likely bad.

 

“Is it Rhoswen and her dear Sirens?” He asked nonchalantly.

 

“No… we found a stowaway in a crate!”

 

Carvellain blinked.

 

“A… stowaway?”

* * *

 

True to the deckhand’s word, a stowaway was indeed inside the crate-a pale-skinned woman with long, light green hair, wearing naught more than a simple pale green dress and gloves of the same color. She seemed skittish and was easily startled. It wasn't until Lyse approached her (seemingly being the only one without a weapon) softly and gently and kneeled down to her level that she stopped panicking.

 

“It's alright. You're safe. No one is going to hurt you.” She assured, putting out a hand. The girl whimpered softly, before taking the proffered hand and allowing herself to be pulled out of the crate.

 

“Can you walk?” Lyse asked gently. The mystery woman nodded, and Lyse gently let her down. She dusted herself off, and bowed in respect.

 

“Thank you kindly, miss.” She said. Lyse shook her head.

 

“It's no trouble… erm, what is your name?”

 

“Ah… it's Wendy.”

 

“Pleasure to meet you, Wendy! I'm Lyse, and behind me is Alisaie.”

 

Wendy nodded.

 

“Forgive me for ruining this little moment, but would you care to explain _why_ you elected to stow away on a pirate ship?” Alisaie questioned. Wendy shrunk down.

 

“My friends told me to run… so I did… I didn’t ask… I just ran…”

 

Alisaie narrowed her gaze, but shrugged and sighed.

 

“Well, what’s done is done. Just stay out of trouble. Come on, we have another nation to liberate, and I’m sure Captain Carvellain has his own matters to attend to.” Alisaie said, before turning and leaving. The Captain and his crew returned to their ship, and the rest of the passengers, save for Wendy.

 

After everyone had left, a demonic smirk came across Wendy’s face.

 

 _Facet W117, Cut P107, report in._ White Diamond’s voice ordered.

 

 _Reporting in, my Diamond. I’ve made the journey successfully. The majority suspect nothing, though there is a small fleshling that seemed slightly suspicious._ “Wendy” reported back.

 

_Our plans can not be exposed before the time is right. Restore the nearest Mine to functional capacity, capture the girl, and send her here for conversion. I don’t care how you do it, so long as she’s alive. Then, resume executing your original orders._

 

_As you will, my Diamond._

 

The enigmatic woman secretly conjured a strange, clear powder in her hand.

 

“Alisaie… You will be the first of many…”

 

She blew the powder from her hand, sending it to the wind.

* * *

 

Alisaie crawled into her bed for the night. The journey back from Doma was a long one, and the thought of the resurrection of the Diamond threat would not leave her alone. The stowaway just seemed _too_ suspicious. Too much of a mystery-

 

Alisaie suddenly began to choke, and then, she felt a heavy presence. A hand gently caressed her face, and she saw the stowaway from earlier.

 

_Why hello there, little Alisaie…_

 

Alisaie swallowed.

 

“I knew it! You’re not some refugee named Wendy, you're one of White Diamond’s servants!”

 

A hearty chuckle.

 

_Indeed, Facet W117, Cut P107, a Peridot in faithful service to the lustrous and glorious White Diamond! And soon, you will join our ranks!_

 

“Like hells I will!” Alisaie fired back, drawing her rapier, moments before slashing at the Peridot. The Gem simply leapt back, and threw something at Alisaie. Seconds later, the Elezen found herself bound in white chains, and then encapsulated in a white, diamond-shaped cage. She pounded as best she could against her prison, but her efforts were fruitless.

 

The Elezen could do nothing except watch as the Peridot tapped the top of the crystalline cage, sending her off.

* * *

 

In the blink of an eye, Alisaie found herself in one of the most… _interesting_ places she'd ever seen. It looked like a well-hollowed-out and well-maintained gem quarry, except instead of small holes made by pickaxes and other tools, there were caverns of varying sizes-homes for the varying servants of the White Diamond Dragon. The walls were lined with a silvery-blue lining, and at the top of each archway was a symbol-four diamond shapes arranged in a diamond-shape-white, pink, blue, and yellow. And varying crystalline creatures populated the halls. And this was only what Alisaie could see from her prison-she could only imagine the exact details of the massive place.

 

Soon enough, she was pulled from the ceiling area, and brought to another area-no “rooms” to speak of, but a series of test tubes of all shapes and sizes, lab tables covered in beakers and other things, and a _massive_ cage in the center.

 

A pinkish wolf placed Alisaie in the massive cage, which closed around her; taking place of what the Peridot had ensnared her in. Mere seconds later, she was bound at the wrists and ankles, with an additional band wrapping around her midsection. And then, thin, sharp needles came closer to her, and she began to panic. She squirmed and struggled, even going as far as to try to use some of her magic to break even one of her binds.

 

“Resistance is futile, little child. Now, I wonder… what will you become?” The pinkish wolf mused, watching as the needles pierced Alisaie’s skin. Strange, shimmering, iridescent fluid began pumping into her veins.

 

Mere seconds later, she shrieked. Her skin shone with bright, sapphire blue light, and a feeling not unlike the beginning of a teleportation spell came over the fiery young Elezen. It didn't take her long to realize her very being was being manipulated into something strange and new to her. She felt her form dissolve, yet her mind remained, until she felt something solid form in the area where the center of her hand would be.

 

Her formless, modified aether instinctively used the solid form as an anchor of sorts, reforming into a large, sapphire-blue coeurl shape, with the object (which resembled a circular sapphire set in the back of what was now her right front paw) standing out. The moment she finished reforming, she felt a powerful force overcome her, as if Zenos yae Galvus himself had punched her square in her skull.

 

She passed out mere moments later.


	3. A Sister Lost

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> Upon discovering his sister has gone missing, Alphinaud flies into a panic....

“Alisaie! Where are you?! This isn't funny!”

 

Alphinaud had flown into full-on panic mode upon being told his sister had somehow vanished in the middle of the night. Without the slightest trace, it seemed. His mind was racing with possibilities.

 

Was this her being petty because he had forced her to rest after her severe wound? Or perhaps the Garleans had kidnapped her? Or perhaps-no, he couldn't allow his thoughts to go any further in that direction, or else he'd go completely mad. No, she  _ had  _ to be alive! He could  _ not  _ lose her-

 

**_“ALPHINAUD LEVEILLEUR!”_ **

 

He jumped and snapped out of his panicked thoughts at the sound of Krile bellowing his name. He looked down, and glared at her.

 

“What was  _ that  _ for, Krile?! You  _ know  _ how I am feeling right now, and yet, you just  _ screamed  _ my name like-”

 

“I  _ do  _ believe I have found something that can assist us in regards to finding your dear sister!” 

 

The Elezen’s eyes widened.

 

“Then speak already!”

 

Krile rolled her eyes. 

 

“You know of our newly awakened…  _ problem,  _ correct?” 

 

“The Dragon of White Diamond and her servants? What do they have to do with Alisaie vanishing into thin air?”

 

“The  _ Crystanima,  _ as they are properly called, are unlike any other Spoken race in existence. They are diverse in subspecies, and have incredible technology at their disposal… including machines and chemicals that allow them to convert other living beings into any member of their kind, save for a Diamond.”

 

Alphinaud’s face turned to one of horror at the realization. He took a step back, and shook his head in denial.

 

“No… no… It cannot be! Alisaie would never allow herself to be taken!” 

 

He slid to his knees, and slammed his fist into the sandy dirt.

 

“No! It cannot be! Alisaie… Alisaie… She can't be-!”

 

“It's too late by now, filthy human! That little brat stuck her nose where it didn't belong, and now, she's one of us! And she can't be changed back!” 

 

Alphinaud was furious. He looked up, and saw the suspicious woman being restrained by Thancred. She was sneering at the young Elezen. He got up, and grabbed her by the collar of her shirt; glaring right into her eyes.

 

“Then you had best know of a way to  _ at least  _ set her free from White Diamond's control,  _ Crystanima! _ ” He growled, fury and venom in his voice. Said Crystanima tried to look away, but Thancred made it impossible for her to get very far. The air was quickly getting tense-

 

“Alright, alright! There  _ might  _ be a way to get your precious sister back!” She exclaimed, flailing for a bit before finally slumping out of exhaustion. 

 

“I'm listening….” Alphinaud trailed, arms folded, still glaring at the young Spoken. She sighed heavily.

 

“Okay, first off, did you two come from… what do you humans call the place you incubate yourselves in?”

 

Alphinaud blinked, before it clicked in his head what the Crystanima had asked.

 

“We call it a womb… and yes, Alisaie and I did indeed come from the same womb… in fact, we are actually twins. It is also probably worth noting we don't call the process of carrying children ‘incubating’... what is your name?”

 

“We Crystanima don't exactly  _ have  _ names like you humans. There are too many of us and too many different types of us. But we do have designations…. Mine is Facet W117, Cut P107.” 

 

“That's… interesting…”

 

“The first part means I was made for White Diamond, in the 117th Mine under her jurisdiction. The second part means I was the 107th Gem made, and I'm a Peridot.” 

 

“I… see. But back to how to save Alisaie… why is the fact I'm her fraternal twin relevant?” Alphinaud asked.

 

“Because the way control is maintained over new Gemlings, like your sister, involves taking her soul out of her body and inserting what you might call a ‘pseudo-soul’ in its place.”

 

Alphinaud was horrified, and it showed on his face.

 

“Relax, human-her soul isn't  _ gone.  _ It's kept in a  _ Szhigayushchaya komnata _ \- or, in your language, a Burning Room. The room gets its name from the fact a special fire burns in there to keep the souls sustained.” The Peridot assured, droning. 

 

“Why bother keeping the souls at  _ all?  _ Why not simply let them fade?” Thancred asked.

 

“We  _ have  _ to keep every part of a turned Gem’s being in this world, or they fade away  _ entirely.  _ Believe me, it's been tried before on a few Rubies, but we quickly realized that the soul had to stay. It likely has to do with the fact while a normal Gem is born with the sole purpose of serving their role to their Diamond, a turned Gem might try to resist, and thus we have to take precautions.” She explained.

 

“Have you… never once questioned White Diamond?”

 

The Peridot looked with incredulity towards Lyse.

 

“Why  _ would  _ I? She  _ loves  _ us, and takes care of all of us, like a human mother loves and takes care of her humanlings. I know if probably  _ seems  _ like she's using us, but you don't know what it's like to actually  _ live  _ under any Diamond. If you aren't the enemy, she actually is quite wonderful. I don't know why you would want to take her away from that.”

 

“Because she is our  _ friend,  _ and she would  _ never  _ want to just be something of a purpose to another being!” Lyse snapped. The Peridot sighed.

 

“You just don't  _ understand,  _ do you? There is no chaos within the Crystanima because each Gem is born  _ knowing  _ what they're meant to do, and we  _ all  _ know that we belong. I'm no less important than a Sapphire or a Jasper, even though I'm meant for something totally different. It's perfect.”

 

“But haven't you ever  _ wanted  _ **_anything?_ ** Haven't you ever wanted to do your own thing?” 

 

“...You spent at least part of your life being  _ oppressed _ by someone, didn't you?” 

 

Lyse took a step back. How could the Peridot have figured it out-

 

“The same happened to us. Our  _ creators- _ ” She spat the venom-laced word- “sought to use us as tools of war. They wanted to  _ oppress  _ us and make us  _ slaves.  _ But, with the guidance and leadership of the Great Diamond Authority, we overthrew them, and made them  _ pay  _ for what they  _ did  _ to us.”

 

There was silence, before Alphinaud sighed heavily. 

 

“So, it  _ was  _ just like the true start of the Dragonsong War… but, in place of King Thordan and his knights seeking power for themselves, it was your creators wanting soldiers to be able to sacrifice and create on demand. And the Diamonds have had  _ far  _ too much time to brood and dwell on the wrongs they've suffered… Even if we  _ do  _ manage to get Alisaie back, we will still have the rest of White Diamond's legion to contend with.” 

 

The Peridot looked to Alphinaud. 

 

“Yeah, and there are a  _ lot  _ of us. You don't have a  _ chance  _ of getting her back unless you can lure her out and isolate her. And unless you know what her designation is, you don't have a chance of pulling that off.”

 

“So, how are we meant to find out Alisaie’s new designation? And how are we meant to bring her back to us?” Thancred asked. 

 

“We find the nearest Mine, activate it, and then, I'll take a fragment of her brother’s aether-a drop of blood should suffice-and use that to search the database. Then, I'll issue a call to her, and when she gets here, we catch her. In order to save her, though, we'll need an Echo-wielder.”

 

Krile turned sharply to the captive Crystanima. 

 

“How… what…”

 

“How do we know about the Echo? Because that's the only other way to safely counter eikons! The way we are built makes us immune to tempering, but before us, that was it. It was one of the things the Diamonds learned, and the fact that's really one of the few things the Allagans cared about was part of what made them so  _ angry. _ ”

 

Krile thought, and sighed heavily, closing her eyes.

 

“...What do I need to do?” 

 

Everyone looked at Krile, and the Peridot sneered. 

 

“Really?  _ Really? You  _ have the Echo? The Crystal sure makes weird choices… but that doesn't matter.”

 

Krile folded her arms.

 

“Answer my question!” She insisted. 

 

“Once we've figured out her designation and caught her, you will touch her gem, and, using it as a proxy, pull her soul from the Burning Room and simultaneously force the pseudo-soul out while forcing her original soul back in. Then, la-de-bloody-fucking-da, you have your precious sister back, for all the good it will do you lot!” She snapped, before squirming a bit more. She finally groaned loudly.

 

“Now would you  _ please  _ put me down?! I'm  _ really  _ uncomfortable!” 

 

“...What guarantee do I have that you won't run away?”

 

She rolled her eyes.

 

“Because we Peridots aren't designed for direct combat, I'm alone, and completely surrounded. I'm not  _ stupid,  _ human.” She droned. Thancred hummed in thought for a moment, before dropping his hostage to the ground rather unceremoniously. She yelped on impact, before rubbing her arms. She then stood up, and dusted herself off. 

 

“Well, shall we start the mission?”

 

A universal nod.

 

“Lead the way, Peridot.” Lyse said. The Gem looked back, confused. 

 

“That's not my designation…” She trailed. 

 

“Calling you by a bunch of numbers and letters just doesn't feel right. So, Peridot.” Lyrse insisted. Peridot groaned, and shrugged. 

 

“Whatever. It doesn't matter. Let's get this overwith.” 

 

The small group followed Peridot, Alphinaud silently praying that he wasn’t being lied to.


End file.


 

“Ah… at last, you awaken. I began to fear that’d I’d gone and overdone it with you.”

 

Snapping to attention at the voice, grabbing around for her daggers.

 

“It’s useless. I  _ burned  _ your  _ toys.  _ You have no need of them.”

 

Azure blue eyes looking to meet crimson red in sheer terror. 

 

“W-Who… What are you?!” 

 

A chuckle, and a demonic grin, showing razor-sharp teeth. 

 

“My name is Nael deus Darnus… loyal servant of Lord Bahamut.”

 

A horrifying realization.

 

“Those words… you’re tempered! But how?! Bahamut was destroyed during the Calamity!” 

 

An open laugh, followed by Nael coming closer. The azure-eyed Hyur closing in on herself, realizing quickly she was naked as her nameday.

 

“It  _ is  _ true, He lost  _ much  _ of his body… but He now regenerates, deep within these Coils. And yet, He feels that He is regenerating  _ far  _ too slowly. There isn’t much more to be done in regards to crystals… but there can  _ certainly  _ be more done in regards to increasing the numbers of those who follow Him…”

 

Another horrifying realization. A panicked adrenaline rush, followed moments later by a scramble to get up, and run away. Maniacal laughter from Nael as the other woman made for a ledge, scrambling and barely dodging Nael’s magic as she destroyed the ledges mere moments after they were used.

 

“Ah, but my Lord and I grow tired of this  _ game… _ ”

 

A shriek of pain as she was blasted off of a ledge, landing hard on the cold floor of the Hulks. Mere seconds later, she found herself pinned and straddled by Nael.

 

“Relax… I think you’ll quite  _ enjoy  _ this…” The draconic woman purred. Then, she leaned back, bringing her arse closer to her prisoner’s centre, head positioned right over the entrapped’s small chest, arms still holding the wrists of her little rogue. She then leaned in close, and  _ licked  _ the space right inbetween the small mounds of flesh, earning a panicked whine from the other. Where she had licked, the flesh had changed, from soft, pale, almost-deathly white, to something more akin to the tempered’s leathery, purplish hide. The trail continued down, before she went under one breast, circling around it, before then actually moving to  _ ravage  _ the sensitive flesh with fang and muscle. The rogue shrieked when her traitorously-stiff nipple was teased, and Nael chuckled, taking her face in on taloned hand. 

 

“Oh, don’t tell me… is this your first time? How interesting… a little rogue, a  _ street rat…  _ I thought that  _ surely  _ you would have at least borne  _ witness  _ to the act… and yet, the way you just shrieked tells me the  _ exact opposite… _ ”

 

The pinned rogue’s face twisted into a snarl of anger. 

 

“And you’d think the Garleans would have half the brains to  _ not  _ give someone as  _ mad  _ as  _ you  _ power, but they did, so I s’ppose we’re even!” She snapped back. Nael narrowed her gaze, and slapped the rogue across the face, rough claws scraping ever-so-lightly across the underside of the cheek.

 

“Such a sharp tongue.. Of course, that will all change as well…”

 

The mad Legatus returned to her efforts, and, much to the rogue’s shock and horror, the teased breast had grown to  _ at least  _ double its original size, if not more. Unsurprisingly, however, the other breast was not neglected, being given the same feral, lewd treatment. Soon, her chest mirrored her captor’s-purplish, leathery skin, with gold armor providing some protection… and then, the rogue got an idea.

 

Whatever Nael was doing was twisting her body into a spitting image of the enslaved woman… undoubtedly including those fierce, sharp claws. She just had to trick Nael into giving them to her, then scratch her captor hard enough to get her off, and then get the hells out of there. Once escaped, she would run, and run, and  _ run  _ until she was as far as she could possibly get from this place of insanity.

 

She managed to jerk her body for her own trickery, aiming for her right (aka her dominant) hand, and the draconic woman took the bait. The arm was licked, magic tingling where saliva didn’t touch and ensuring the arm was turned. Then, the hand was brought close, each finger being carefully coated in the enchanted saliva (gods, that was such a strange-sounding idea in the rogue’s head, but what else could it be?), and becoming those hazardous, sharp claws she needed. 

 

The moment the change was finished, the rogue was swift to charge magic into her talons, and slash Nael in the face with fire-enhanced claws. The draconic woman rolled off in mere seconds, clutching at her bleeding, burned face. The rogue seized her chance, and used her taloned hand to aid in her escape. By the time Nael recovered from the attack, the rogue was gone. Nael chuckled to herself, lowering her hand, to reveal her face had completely healed.

 

“Clever little shite… But you only delay the inevitable…”

 

She stood up, and folded her arms, chuckling again.

 

“Mayhaps this will be even  _ more  _ fun…”

Escaping the Coils proved to be challenging, but she did it. When she finally saw crystallized desert, it was a cool night. She sighed in relief-it was dark and cloudy, making it difficult for anyone to see her hideous form. Chest and right arm draconic like Nael’s enchanted hide, but the rest remained normal, untainted flesh. 

 

She knew she could probably escape the woman’s wrath and recapture attempts by heading back to Limsa Lominsa, her home. But she had to  _ get there  _ first, which meant some…  _ trickery  _ was necessary.

 

She spotted a basilisk-perfect, she thought, the hide of a basilisk would easily conceal her condition. So, she pounced on the basilisk, and forced its neck and head backwards with force and speed-snapping the creature’s neck and ending its life swiftly. It died with a shriek, and she skinned it with her clawed hand, cutting up the hideless corpse for meat and alchemical valuables as best she could with no means to contain liquids. 

 

She covered herself in the hide, making sure her cursed parts were hidden. She then snuck to the Ceruleum Processing Plant, listening in for a cue.

 

“So, you’re headed to Limsa, carryin’ goods t’ be sold in Hawkers’ Alley…”

 

Her silent prayer had been answered. She was quick to get to the side of the carriage, where a tanned Lalafell turned to look at her. 

 

“Hm? What do  _ you  _ want?”

 

“...I just need to get back to Limsa. Things went south on a job request, and I need to get away from here before things get worse. Regroup and reset, if you will.”

 

It wasn’t a  _ total  _ lie-she was just leaving out the parts where she’d been taken prisoner by someone everyone else thought was dead and had parts of her body changed by magic. The Lalafell narrowed his gaze at her.

 

“And what will you pay?” He asked coldly. She offered up the meat, eyes, and organs.

 

“I killed a basilisk to get its hide, since my clothes were destroyed. I know that alchemists tend to like certain parts, and the meat is actually pretty good when cooked correctly…” She explained. The Lalafell shrugged.

 

“You speak true, girl. Just bag it with some empty sacks in the back, don’t cause problems, and I could care less.” He told her. The rogue smiled.

 

“Thank you…” She trailed.

 

“Oh, one last thing… what’s your name?” The Lalafell asked.

 

“Jade. My name is Jade.” She said. He smiled.

 

“Well, Jade, hop on aboard. We’re a straight shot to Limsa.” He told her. She nodded, and did as told, putting the components in the cargo area, before settling down in a space she could find. She curled in on herself.

 

What in the seven hells could she possibly do  _ now? _


	2. Something We've Never Seen Before

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> Jade returns home, but even that's not enough....

When the carriage arrived, about three days later, Jade’s body had long since developed aches in her upper back and left arm. She dared not look-she was so very afraid of what had happened on the journey… She shoved the thought aside, and slipped away from the carriage, heading towards the one place she knew she could feel safe.

 

“Jade?” 

 

She didn’t seem to hear Lonwoerd speak, instead only shivering.

 

“Y’alright there, lass? Y’ look like you’ve seen a ghost or somethin’...” 

 

Jade’s breathing was unsteady as she held her hide around herself.

 

“...I need Jacke.”

 

“Lass-”

 

“Please, Lon… I  _ need  _ him. I need to talk to him. Alone.”

 

Lon bit his lip, and gently rested a hand on her shoulder.

 

“Alright, lass. Go inside, and get settled. I’ll go find him.”

 

“Thanks.”

* * *

 

“Jade? What’s gon’ an’ happen’d to ya? Yer just as much as mess as Lon said ya were…” 

 

Jacke’s voice was soft and gentle as he walked gently to her side. She didn't answer for several minutes, but then, she let the improvised cloak drop… And the guildmaster’s jaw dropped in horror.

 

“Seven ‘ells, Jade! What's with yer chest and arms?!” He asked, horrified.

 

“...I was out doing that job I said I would do… And then, something hit me hard in the back of my head… Well, I later learned it was  _ someone.  _ Called herself Nael deus Darnus. She took everything away from me… and then, she forced herself on me.” Jade managed. Jacke couldn't believe what he was hearing.

 

“Somehow, this Nael did this to ya?” He asked softly.

 

“She  _ licked  _ me, Jacke!” Jade sobbed. “She licked my chest, and it became… well,  _ this!  _ She was going on and on about her precious ‘Lord Bahamut’, and I guess she's His tempered slave… And she was trying to enslave me too! I managed to trick her into giving me a set of claws so I could get out of there, but it's gotten worse!” She added, before giving in and leaning on Jacke. The master rogue embraced her, patting her back soothingly.

 

“We’ll figure it out, lass. We take care of our own, and y’know it be’er than anyone ‘ere. We’ll at least try ta stop it from gettin’ any worse.” He assured. Jade finally settled into sniffles, and nodded weakly.

 

“Thank you…” She whispered.

 

“It’s no problem, lass. Go sleep.” He insisted. A nod, and then, Jade left, curling up in her bed in the rafters.

* * *

 

_ “How sweet… that man, is he in charge of your fellow rats?” _

_ Jade jumped at the sound of the voice, turning to see none other than Nael herself. Jade grit her teeth and glared at the tempered woman. _

 

_ “How are you in my  _ **_dreams_ ** _ , bitch?! Why can’t you leave me  _ **_ALONE?!_ ** ”  _ Jade demanded angrily. Nael laughed. _

 

_ “You  _ **_are_ ** _ a fiery one… all the more entertaining it will be when you  _ **_finally_ ** _ break and submit to Lord Bahamut’s will.” She taunted. Jade sprinted forward, and attempted to punch Nael square in the face, but the woman simply transformed and flew upwards. She smirked evilly at the rogue. _

 

_ “Such a short temper…”  _

 

_ Nael sighed and shrugged. _

 

_ “Alas, this is all I can manage with you for now… enjoy the last remnants of your humanity… for I will crush them.”  _

 

_ Nael vanished… _

* * *

 

“...Jade! Jade!”

 

The young Hyur woke up in the middle of a long, drawn-out scream. Jacke was holding her, and it took several minutes before she could calm down enough to stop hyperventilating. She looked to Jacke, and his face saddened.

 

“...She’s hauntin’ yer nightmares now… that bitch!” He realized. Jade nodded weakly. Jacke handed her his bandanna.

 

“Here, keep it fer t’night. And I swear, we  _ will  _ save ya, lass. We take care of our own.”

 

Another weak nod, and the scent of the bandanna was enough to lull Jade into a blessedly-dreamless, Nael-free slumber.


End file.

**Author's Note:**

  * For [Remix_Sakura](https://archiveofourown.org/users/Remix_Sakura/gifts).
  * Inspired by [The Siren's Voice](https://archiveofourown.org/works/6019482) by [Remix_Sakura](https://archiveofourown.org/users/Remix_Sakura/pseuds/Remix_Sakura). 



Chapter 1: “I'm  **_WHAT?!_ ** ” 

A soft moan escaped her lips as she awoke on a bed in the Lominsan infirmary. She struggled to open her eyes. Wait, what had landed her in here in the first place? 

 

She forced herself into a sitting position. She looked around, only to find herself unharmed and the room mostly empty. She wasn't injured… had she drunk too much and passed out? 

 

“Ah, you're awake, Captain Rhoswen.” 

 

Rhoswen looked up and saw a young Hyur girl-nothing remarkable, just some short redhead with white skin and blue eyes in a Maelstrom uniform. She must've been the one in charge of the Captain's care. But why was she smiling like that? As if she had something important to say…?

 

“Congratulations, Captain.” She began.

* * *

 

“On what?” Rhoswen asked.

 

“You're pregnant!” 

 

Rhoswen stared, mouth agape. She then took a deep breath…

 

**_“I'm WHAT?!”_ ** ****

* * *

 

**_“I'm WHAT?!”_ **

 

The Sirens flinched when they heard their Captain's disbelieving, furious scream. Clearly, whatever the diagnosis was, Rhoswen was not taking it well. Finally, after a while, Melkoko worked up the courage to go and see her. 

 

Rhoswen’s face was in her hands. The Lalafell frowned.

 

“Captain? What's wrong?” She asked. The Captain let out an exasperated sigh as she leaned back and lowered her hands.

 

“...I'm three months pregnant, Mel. That's why I fainted. I wasn't eatin’ enough for both baby an’ me.” She confessed. Melkoko stared. 

 

“...Captain…”

 

“Just… just leave me alone. I need ta think.” 

 

“...Alright.” 

 

Melkoko left, and Rhoswen buried her face in her hands again.

 

How in the seventh hell was she supposed to be a  _ mother?  _ Carrying and birthing the kid was one thing, but properly  _ raising  _ it? She didn't have a  _ clue _ about caring for a baby. She could shoot down Garleans, lead her crew, and take down even the best Imperial ships, but nowhere in there was guidance on how to raise a helpless infant. None of this was helped by the fact that she knew  _ exactly  _ who the father was-

 

“Rhoswen, my dear… I overheard it all.”

 

_ Heh, even just think o’ the bastard and he'll pop outta nowhere.  _ She thought, lowering her hands. She then looked towards him.

 

“It was bound to happen sooner or later… I'm grateful it was me, if I am to be honest.” Carvellain told her. She scoffed and rolled her eyes.

 

“Yer tellin’ me ya actually know how to take care of a baby? Please! You're just as much of a filthy pirate as I am. An’ nowhere in pirate culture is there any way of raisin’ a helpless brat properly.” She told him harshly.

 

“True, but I also know you learn very quickly. I also have no doubt that you have maternal instincts. I believe that if we put aside our disagreements, we will raise an excellent child.” He insisted. She scoffed yet again.

 

“Enough flattery. Fine. For th’ baby. But you have no say in namin’ it, ya hear me?!” She insisted. He chuckled.

 

“Alright, alright. That's fair.” He told her, making a gesture of surrender. She then leaned back, and yawned.

 

“Get lost. Baby's makin’ me tired, an’ I have less patience than usual for yer brand of shit.” 

 

He bowed, and left. She flipped to her side, and sighed heavily.

 

Damn that cheeky and yet infuriatingly handsome Elezen bastard all the way to the seventh hell and back. 


End file.

**Author's Note:**

> This is something that I wrote to get out some personal issues. This may change or get updated? Please suggest tags?
> 
> Inspired by the song 'Used' by Wyvern Lingo.

She had gone to him for comfort, once.

Comfort had not been what she received from Ser Aymeric, however.

When first she had come calling, he had been kind enough to her. His hands had been gentle, at first, smoothing over her as they made their way to his private chambers. Carefully, he stripped them of their armor, then their clothing after. He eased her down onto his bed, whispering words of comfort and calm. He had kissed her then, tentatively at first, then with more intent. His hands trailed down her body, his lips following in short order. He touched her with delicate fingers and whispering tongue, driving carefully to fall. Tears pricked at her eyes as he stepped between her thighs, though if he noticed, he made no indication. He took her, tenderly, gently. Too gently.

It was a short lived kindness. She could not stand him to treat her that way. For him to treat her as Haurchefant had.

When next she called on him, he began in much the same way. As he leaned to kiss her, tender, she bit him. He had stepped back, looking at her in shocked confusion. When at last leaned in to continue, she bit him again.

Hard.

Hard enough to draw blood. He had looked at her so incredulously, then, hand raising to his lip, coming away with blood.

She remembered feeling cold, in that moment, a defiant look in her eyes.

Even now, she could not say what emotion crossed his face.

The blue pools of his eyes darkened in a way that had sent a shameful shiver up her spine. He stepped purposefully to her, his hands rougher this time, taking instead of giving. She did little to fight him as he threw her down, forcefully pressing her into the bed. He did not care now, if she was ready for him. He took. He took and he took, leaving her panting and crying out in pain.

And she had given, left him with long, bloody scratches along his hands and wrists that she was sure he would have trouble explaining later.

The pain was a type of relief, she supposed, to her broken soul.

When next she visited him, she stole away in his quarters, falling asleep while waiting for him to return.

Cool steel closed over her wrists, before she was dragged up the length of the bed, chained to the bars of the head board. She did not look at him as he forced her to her knees, expecting him to take her just there. When nothing came, she dared to raise her eyes. As she lifted her head, she was rewarded with a heavy crack across her back side. Tears had sprung to her eyes and she could feel the residual sharp pain. His gloved hand rested upon her backside for a time, before pulling away. The cool air across the hot sting made her shiver. She cried out as another sharp clap landed, calculated and precise, in the same spot on her skin. He continued to spank her until her cries fell to silent sobs. Only then did he take her, his fingers digging into her bruised flesh, as he pounded her into oblivion.

And she had given, a swift headbutt to the face and left him with his nose bleeding.

Her next visit he was waiting for her.

He chained her to a chair, this time, locked her hands behind her back and her ankles to the legs. She glared defiantly at him as he raised the slender blade to her cheek, passing the flat edge across her flushed skin. When still she looked into his face, he traced the sharpened edge gingerly along a scar in the crook of her neck. She lowered her eyes, and shivered at the sensation of cool steel across her hot skin. He traced each scar on her body with calculated precision, the cold steel caressing her skin like claws. Careful, careful, never cutting, but the threat always there. He continued until she was shuddering and gasping violently, the anticipation of the bite of the blade driving her out of her mind. Only then did he take her, tipping her chair forward and fucking her mouth till her throat was raw and he was spent a few times over.

And she had given, the chair smashed over his head to leave him sputtering blood on the rug.

Each visit was a new torture, where he took and she gave.

A vicious caning, a vicious bite. Choking her till she saw stars. A broken rib.

Each was a new torture, him taking, her giving, escalating in extremity until their last.

And their last was the worst of tortures she could endure.

That last visit, she found him in his quarters, standing at the edge of the bed in his tunic and breeches, hair still slick from washing. She went to him, eyes down, daring not to look into his face. She waited for a long while for him to do something. To throw her down or beat her or fuck her till she was raw and screaming.

But that was not the way this worked.

His hand reached up to cup her chin, pulling her face gently upwards until she was looking into his eyes. Tears pricked her eyes as he leaned forward and kissed her, gentle and loving. His hands touched her tentatively, brushing the tips of his fingers and the back of his hand across her skin. He eased her down onto her back and kissed a trail down her body. Each scar and hurt soothed with the flick of the tongue or the gentle grazing of teeth. When finally he reached the cleft of her legs, he gently parted her with feather light touches of tongue and fingertip, taking her over the delicate edge of that small death.

Then he was kissing her again, a whispering trail of lips up the length of her body, worshiping her skin with care. His eyes caught hers and in them was such pain, such wonder, such reverence. When finally he reached her lips once more, he took them sweetly, whispering his prayer into her mouth.

And then she was touching him, pressing him easily into the bed below, her hands giving tenderness in return. The careful flick of dexterous fingers pulling away his clothing, the ghost of her lips chasing along his skin after the subtle shift of cloth. Each scar and hurt soothed with the flick of the tongue or the gently grazing of teeth.

They clung to each other, rocking together tortuously slow, until finally they were left panting and moaning each other's names.

She took and he gave.

 

 

**Author's Note:**

> Please leave kudos or comments to let me know if you enjoyed this.


End file.

**Author's Note:**

> This is the first explicit smut I'm posting (I think?). I have some more that I'm working on that isn't nearly this intense and messed up. Some super fluffy smut, even. This is basically just because my headcannon dictates that while Estinien and my WoL love each other, it wouldn't be possible for them to get over themselves long enough to start a sexual relationship in a nice way. This is also (kind of) the start of my lore building for my WoL/Aymeric/Estinien trio. Things in this series will not always be this heavy and dark and fucked up, promise! But there will be some dark stuff, too.

The gentle tinkling of metal against glass was the only noise over the winds of the point. The sounds carried only so far, she knew, before they were borne away with the gusts. Francel was, thankfully, not foolish enough to venture out into the dravanian infested snows at this time of night, on a night where the winds tore through the cliffs in gales and tossed up the snows in flurries. Only _she_ was crazy enough to be out in this weather. She could take her time, tonight, and only she and Genbut, stabled comfortably back at the camp, would know. Though the cold was still biting and her hands had long gone numb, the winds did little to disturb her.

 

The thick silver band about her wrist, adorned with jadeite and magicked with air aspected aether, saw to that. A gift from Cid, she remembered, after the first time she'd gone arrow to feather with the Queen of the Gaels, Garuda. They both held a special hatred for that _particular_ primal, because of the ordeal with The Enterprise and the deep scar she'd left on the bridge of her nose. Her mates often joked that Garuda's feathers could be sharp, but she would never admit that it had been the flint of her own stray arrow, snapped off in the torrent and flung back at her, that had done it. She absently brushed a finger over the scar tissue, if she could call it that, as it had not so much healed over as just closed. Though it no longer bled and had long since blackened over, it still looked as though it might reopen if she even sneezed wrong. The pain was gone, too, but she could still remember how the shrapnel had carved through the flesh and cartilage and bone and sprayed her own life's blood to blind her. She hadn't been able to properly breath through it since.

 

 _You always liked that story_ , she thought, as he had watched the airship soar through the Highlands with the harpy _bitch_ as their goal. And it was the first story that she'd _come back_ to tell in person. And she remembered how he'd idly trace a finger over the scar when they were curled up together by the hearth and he was carefully rubbing the worry and strain from her face.

 

She chuckled bitterly. It was all of the scars she received due to her own stupidity that he had paid careful attention to.

 

She brushed a finger down the thick scar over the lids of her left eye, this one from when they'd found her face down on the ice after falling from a cliff just outside of the Camp. She'd lost her way in the blizzard, trying to run from the Syndicate's hounds after that nastiness in Ul'dah, and _literally_ walked off a cliff. The impact smashed her face on that side and actually busted the delicate organ. They'd had to cut her open to take it out and put in the glass eye that Cid – she really needed to thank him properly for all of this shit one day – had made to replace it. This, too, was infused with. . . _some kind of thing_ , she couldn't remember what, but it let her use trace amounts of her aether to see. It gave her terrible aether sickness, though, so she didn't use it much. In fact, almost never. She even wore a thick leather band over the eye most days. She couldn't really understand how Shtola did it. . .

 

But how he'd showered it with attention, at first taking turns to play nursemaid, then later when it was healed. She would cover it over, hiding it from the light so it wouldn't make her feel sick, but he would come in and coax her out of the bandages, take her face in his hands and ghost kisses along the line of it, feather light and sweet enough to bring her to tears. At first in mourning of the eye, then later at his gracious affections.

 

And then now.

 

She sniffed hard as the rings on her fingers clinked against the glass bottle and lifted it to wet her chapped lips. The bitter liquid was near frozen, though it had begun the trip near boiling, but she was still able to coax out a mouthful. She swished the frozen mush around in her cheeks, melting it and relishing in the way it bit at her tongue, like that arrow head, and seared down her throat when she swallowed. As it settled in her belly it warmed her, just enough to take the edge off. Just enough to dissolve the handful of tears that threatened to spill.

 

She rested her head heavily on the cool, stone slab at her back, the epitaph having long since eroded away by the unrelenting storms, and she whispered the long since memorized phrasing to the abyss. They were so deeply ingrained now that she would keep them stitched on her heart till it stopped beating. She sometimes wished that it would, when she was drowning in the darkness of her own hurt, but it wouldn't.

 

Or at least, it hadn't yet.

 

And when she wished that it would and it would not, she would visit. A fact that bothered some few and really only those that truly knew her. Francel, she considered, was one of those few. And he would offer her comforting words, all the while doing his own grieving. And Aymeric, was another, having been the reason they were there. She could not stand to see the pain reflected on his face and so she began to visit on nights like these. When the calm midnight air and settled ice and snows were ravaged by the gales that howled through the cliffs like great beasts. It felt right, to have the weather reflect her inner turmoil.

 

She licked her lips, tongue dry as sand and doing little to soothe them but for gathering the remnants of the mulled whiskey that clung to them. She heaved a breath around the ice in her lungs, burning like the drink, but edged like a razor. She kept herself from coughing by holding it in, then releasing it a bit at a time till she needed another. Her breath wheezed silently in and out of her.

 

The bottle in her hand was growing heavy, along with her already crushing mood, and she let it slip to the ground between her feet to roll a few ilms away. She should have brought the Ice Tears. It made more sense, in an ironic way. A drink that was made from ice trap sap and kept cold so that the inherent poison coagulated in a thin lair at the top. It was potent and deadly in large amounts, but it burned through the veins and was made to keep ice fishers warm, crazy bastards. But they had shared a bottle on multiple occasions, when it was cold out or _they_ were just cold from missing each other's company. She'd even used it to drug him once, the poison left in the vial she'd given him to drink, so that he'd hold still long enough for her to treat his frostbite. She still felt guilty for that, and for leaving him so pock-marked after that, but she'd managed to save the flesh below and that was the important part. He'd never even mentioned it, if he'd remembered the night at all.

 

 _I need you here to forgive me_ , came thoughts unbidden. She did need him to forgive her and he would have, but she also knew that she wouldn't accept it. She would take **this** guilt to the grave.

 

The guilt of having lost him.

 

It was a double edged guilt. A guilt that he had died in her arms. In Aymeric's arms. A guilt that cut both ways, because he had done it for both of them. First to get Aymeric from the tender mercies of the Heaven's Ward and then again to get her out of the way of her own carelessness. She'd chased after the bastard that turned them loose and the bolt was meant for her. And she wished she'd taken the bolt instead of him. It couldn't have hurt as much as this.

 

She was the only one that could remember. That could remember his scream, distantly, when it shattered his shield and pierced him through. She was glad to be the one that remembered it, if only to keep it from haunting their nightmares. It felt right. And the significance of his agonizing scream tearing out of her whenever she woke from those nightmares was not lost on her. She didn't mind that it had left her spitting blood and leaving her vocal chords raw and her voice a breezy whisper most days. She would never sing again, anyway, and she didn't mind much. She would never feel like singing again.

 

The years would heal, they said, but how could she heal if things were constantly poking at the wounds? She hadn't had a break since that day. Hadn't had the time to mourn, except for when she stole away for nights like this. They could all be dead in their bedrolls when she returned, but she would be none the wiser. And that, too, weighed heavily on her conscience. Leaving them with no warning to come here to be with him, regardless of the circumstance. But she couldn't stop herself. Didn't want to.

 

He wasn't even buried here, she knew. They might never tell her _where_ he was buried, for fear that she'd climb into the grave with him. And she _knew_ he wasn't here because she'd _tried_.

 

She pulled the frozen shield into her lap, tracing her fingers over the hole. Where once had been sharp edges that bit at her fingers, were now weathered smooth as the slab at her back, the colors of his house having begun to fade like the epitaph.

 

 _Smile for me_ , he'd said, choking on his blood. The only selfish thing he'd ever asked of her. _His last words_. It was selfish, because how could she? When he was not there to coax it out of her. Sure she smiled, sometimes, but never so brightly as when he'd smiled back. And that was the smile he wanted from her. The one that made him weak in the knees and willing to grant her wildest desires and dreams, the smile he'd sacrificed himself for. She wished the she _could_ muster that smile. Wished that if she could it would somehow bring him _back._

 

But it wouldn't. So she didn't.

 

More guilt.

 

She raised the bottle to her lips again.

 

“Are you going to sit out here all night,” a voice murmured from the other side of the head stone, and for a moment, she allowed herself to believe it was _his_.

 

She was not, however, surprised to find that it _wasn't_.

 

She startled and turned to look up into the Azure Dragoon's face. He was leaned over, arms folded over the top of the slab, and he was looking down at her from beneath his visor. His face was calm and cool, and it offended her how serene he looked when she felt this way. He watched her, unflinching, as she stumbled to her feet, or tried to, then fell back against the cold stone. He did not stop her descent, only watched and waited. He would only intervene, she knew, if he thought she might dash her head against the stones. It was the way he handled her when she was like this.

 

She cursed and lifted the glass bottle, hucking it at him with a visceral cry of rage and sorrow. He simply tilted his head to the side to avoid the thing and listened as it crashed on the ground behind him. If she were sober, he would have been worried, but her aim was terrible when she was drunk like this.

 

“A chocobo chick could try to peck you to death and you would be powerless to stop it,” he sighed, pushing off of the slab and taking a seat beside her. He reached into his boot and handed her the flask he kept there, “I did not give you this.”

 

She took it without thanking him and brought it to her lips.

 

“Gibe me wha',” she slurred, tilting her head back and swallowing down its contents like water, nearly falling back into the snow, but for the gauntleted hand that bunched up the back of her tunic.

 

He rolled his eyes and took the empty thing back, returning it to its place.

 

“Do you plan to _actually_ die in the snow tonight,” he mused, “Or are you going to make the Lord Commander play nursemaid to your frostbite and hypothermia,” he leveled his gray eyes on her accusingly, “Again?”

 

“Let me die,” she mumbled miserably, pulling her knees to her chest, half for warmth – because it was still freezing – and half to keep her balance, and maybe all because she wanted to be as small as possible.

 

“You know that I cannot,” he whispered to the winds, “ _They_ would never forgive me.”

 

“Fuhck ohff,” she shouted, “You aren't even _real!_ ”

 

He rolled his eyes at that, his voice sharp and tearing through her bitter mood like the lance on his back, “How many more nights will you drink yourself into believing that? _Nidhogg_ is **dead** and I am _**not**_. I am _**here**_ and **you** will not _be rid of me_ by drinking yourself **stupid**.”

 

“I _**wish**_ you weren't real,” she hissed, “So that I could fucking lay here and **die**.”

 

Estinien took a deep breath, counting backwards from one hundred. Sometimes it was one thousand, but tonight she was not flailing her axe at him, so it was one hundred.

 

It was probably about the hundredth time he'd had to come out to look for her. The hundredth time they'd received a message by linkpearl – they'd had to put a watch on her after the second or third time she'd come home half dead from hypothermia and too much ice trap poisoning – from Francel or Emmanealine, or one of the other knights that frequented Camp Dragonhead, after catching her stabling her chocobo only to trot off in the snow on foot.

 

“I am taking you back,” he decided for her, turning to scoop his arms beneath her back and knees.

 

 _Spoke too soon_ , he thought, as he jumped away from the blade that fell towards him, leaving a deep groove in the ground where he'd just stood. He began to count from a thousand.

 

The cry of frustration that escaped her lips as he fled was audible even over the howling winds. Her eyes burned red in the darkness, her heavy axe hefted in her hands as she still crouched on the balls of her feet. And he cursed her and the Fury for this _guilt driven depression._

 

She had perfect control of her inner beast when she didn't let herself fall into that particular hole. But nights like this, nights after something big had happened, big like Aymeric _asking her to marry him_ , were the worst for it. It was not Aymeric's fault for wanting to be with the woman, but he did not always know when she was on the verge of this abyss. Astute as he was, she was an emotional wreck on a good day and there was never any real warning as to when she would tip into her little hole of self-loathing and miserable regret.

 

Or so they'd thought.

 

Estinien had been little better off in sensing it, at first, but his travels and experience with similar problems left him more alert to the minuscule tells that he had only just begun to piece together himself. Some few telltale signs that she didn't seem to notice.

 

Like when she'd accidentally make two cups of hot chocolate, despite the fact that she was the only one in the house that drank it. It was too bitter for Aymeric, who drowned everything in blasphemous amounts of honey and birch syrup and too sweet for himself, preferring the bitterness of black coffee, even in the middle of the night. But she could never bring herself to pour it out or drink it, as though it was made for someone else, and she would leave it steaming in the kitchen. A little memorial, as though he would just appear in the night and take it, as though she'd wake to find him curled by the hearth asleep with the cup sagging in his hands. When asked, she would simply say that she'd forgotten to drink it and would pour it out, as though now that it had gone cold it was alright to do so.

 

This happened with some frequency, but it was mostly benign, because they all did silly little things to remember Lord Haurchefant. It was proof, though, that he'd been on her mind, despite the fact that he was never _truly_ far from the forefront.

 

But the smaller tells. She would drink more, and at first it seemed a small thing, because she drank too much anyway. They all did, but an extra bottle of the sweet red would go unaccounted for and then show up empty in the pile the morning after a particularly raucous night. A bottle that he and Aymeric were sure they hadn't opened. They did not question it at first, but Estinien quickly learned that it was the first sign that she was slipping.

 

A smaller tell. She would _forget_ to cheat at cards. Aymeric never seemed to notice, forgetting in their drunken stupors that she was actually _amazing_ at cards, and had the **best** _dumb luck_ he'd ever seen besides, and would cheat, she told him, to keep them on equal footing. So when she would win a little more, a little more often, and he didn't catch her out blatantly – to his trained eyes – palming a three into her hand to keep her from getting a royal flush, he would begin to take heed.

 

The smallest tell, one that was as equally a tell as a contradiction, was her sudden lack of nightmares. Aymeric thought it was actually a good sign, and he didn't have the heart to tell him otherwise. The worst of her nights, she would not wake them screaming in the middle of the night, frightened out of her dreams by some harrowing vision. It was when she did not wake them, when her sleep was so fitful that she couldn't even have a proper night-terror, _a night like last night_ , that he knew.

 

Of course, he could do little to stop her from slipping out in the morning. She had a life outside of the de Borel house, outside of Ishgard, though she basically lived there now with the two of them. She had other obligations, other duties, and other _lovers_ to keep her occupied. He previously had no idea where she was going, always saying that she'd be back in that night or in a few days. He could not have known that she would come here until she showed up.

 

So, when he started noticing the little tells stack up. An extra dirty cup. A little more coin jingling in her pocket at the end of a night of gambling. Another bottle in the pile, and neither of them having been roused to soothe her trembling and tears. He would wait for her.

 

This was only the second time he'd caught her out right, only the second time he'd read the signs properly. But he would let her get herself good and crocked before he would even approach her. Even if it wasn't the healthiest way, she needed her time to grieve. He just wouldn't allow her to _kill_ herself doing it.

 

He landed some few feet away from her, watching her carefully as she struggled with the weight of the heavy steel blade and heaved ragged puffs of breath into the cold. Maybe he should have waited a bit longer. Maybe another bottle to get her good and tired?

 

Too late now.

 

She barreled towards him and twisted, arching the thing over her head in both hands. He easily hopped to the side. Even when she was sober, she was slow, but when she wasn't drunk, she was a unpredictable. Not a muscle tensed out of place to give her away.

 

With her drunk and emotional and completely lost to the beast that raged inside her, she was obvious. Still unpredictable, but he was more familiar with it, knew her thought process better.

 

The next swipe was quicker. She wrenched the axe from the ground and curved it up diagonally, missing his hip by fractions as he lept, just in time. She was already barreling towards his landing point and he was forced to pull the spear from his back to get some more distance. He dug the blunt end of the shaft into her shoulder as he vaulted himself past her, knocking her drunken ass forward, but not off her feet. She released a low growl, more animalistic than the playful ones she did when they were alone, this was anger and hatred and rage incarnate.

 

He landed a few feet behind her and he could see her lion's tail thrashing around in frustration, slicing through the winds in its fury. Slowly she turned, those blazing eyes coming into view to rest on his face, and he saw the cruel little smile that curled her lips into a snarl. She heaved the shaft of the axe against her shoulder, slicing through the thin cotton of her tunic and rending the skin below. As the blade came away with her blood, she took it again in two hands, dragging it through the snow as she started her charge. He made to step away, but his feet wouldn't move. He looked down to see them unbound, but still they would not budge. He looked up in horror as she flew towards him, faster than he'd ever seen, her feet barely touching the ground to push her forward. She was in his face, ilms away, and he barely had the time to bring up the shaft of his spear to clash with the haft of her axe. Even with his considerable strength he could not stop the descent of the blade. She was strong and it was heavy and the combination lent to an unforgiving momentum. He hissed as the axe head bit into his shoulder, cleaving at an angle into his clavicle.

 

It was as though she could taste the blood on her axe. And that until she did, she was not aware of who she was really fighting. Like a blind dog biting the hand of its master, then soothing it with a lick when it realized it was never in danger.

 

She startled, eyes wide and dark and light again, looking at the axe in her hands in horror and tossing it away from herself as though it were an angry basilisk about to strike. It clattered to the ground with a loud clang and lay there, dripping their blood across the pale winter white. “Shit,” she hissed, placing a hand over the wound of her shoulder, only just now noticing that it hurt. She looked up at him in concern, her eyes trailing from his face to his shoulder. “ **Shit** ,” she said again, reaching up to place her bloody hands against his own wound. She paid little mind to her own and he could see that they were already beginning to knit closed, fast healing gifted by her god.

 

“It is fine,” he hissed, but he could not keep from gritting his teeth as her fingers fluttered across the ragged edges. He snatched her hands away, holding her wrists and giving her a good shake when she began to panic, “Stop. It will be fine.”

 

“I-I-I,” she was stumbling over her slurred words and he shook her again.

 

“It. Will. Be. Fine,” he narrowed his eyes down at hers and watched as they filled with tears. He took a deep breath and counted down from a thousand. He got to about nine hundred seventy when she began to sniffle and nine hundred twenty two when the first sob escaped her lips. At the sound, he released her wrist and snatched her face up by the chin. She gasped and squeezed her eyes shut, and he followed the trail of a fat tear down her face till it broke over the finger of his gauntlet. She took a deep ragged breath and as she opened her mouth to apologize he smashed his lips against hers, swallowing her words before she could utter them. She whimpered and pushed against him, but he held her fast by her chin, released her wrist and tugged her closer by her hip. She released another sad sound into his throat, but stopped pushing, though her tears did not flowing. If anything, they became heavier.

 

He eased back a fraction, letting her breath, but resting his forehead against hers. She took a few wet breaths, settling her hands on his shoulders to steady herself. He winced, but let her, dropping his hand from her chin to wrap around her shoulders. He watched her face as she sobbed loudly, only just now seeing how pale her normally dark, bronzed skin was. Maybe he'd waited too long. . .

 

She cried for a long time and she curled her arms around his neck, leaning into his hold. He knew that his armor must be uncomfortably cold against her thinly veiled skin, but figured it was too little too late at this point. He wasn't going to take it off out in the open and she wasn't going to magically start _wearing more clothes_.

 

He always felt awkward, holding her like this when she cried, and he never knew what to do with his hands or what to say. Aymeric would hold her and kiss her cheeks and rub her back and whisper soothingly to her. He was not Aymeric. He was not good at calming hurt feelings or saying nice things for the benefit of others. He was not good at emotions.

 

He was good at physical things. He was good at giving people dirty looks and making them shake in their boots. He was good at killing and maiming. And he was good at kissing and at touching. He was good at holding her down and driving her into the mattress until she was quivering and screaming his name.

 

But that kind of thing was not the right thing in this instance. So instead, he held her tightly against him, the both of them bleeding all over each other, and only hoped that she did not cut herself on the edge of the plates of his armor.

 

After a long while, he wasn't even sure how long, she pushed herself away from his chest and frowned at him. He was about to lean down to kiss the frown from her face when she slapped a hand on his chest, shaking her head fervently and bringing a hand to her mouth. He raised a brow at her in confusion and she wrenched herself away and went to her knees, heaving a shallow breath before retching all over the toes of his boots.

 

He began counting again, raising his eyes and his hands to the heavens as though asking for mercy, and taking a slow, deep breath as Aymeric had taught him. After a moment of forcing his anger back down in his chest – and loosing count about ten times – he knelt down to roughly gather her green and yellow tresses out of her face and used his grip to turn her away from his person. She released a pitiful, strangled, breathless laugh before she began retching again in earnest. He smoothed his hand over her back and held her hair, waiting impatiently for her till she was done.

 

Her shoulders heaved as she tried to catch her breath and he tugged her hair a little to get her attention.

 

“You done,” he grumbled, gray eyes looking for traces of nausea still on her face.

 

She sniffed and rubbed her sleeve over her eyes and mouth – he crinkled his nose in disgust – before giving him a weak little nod.

 

“Taking you home,” he muttered as he gathered her up in his arms. She frowned as her eyes refused to focus on his face. “Me axe,” she slurred.

 

“Will be here,” he sighed, forcefully tucking her head against the crook of his neck and slowly starting the unforgiving march back to Camp Dragonhead, “Or beside your bed in the morning if someone has the bad idea to return it to you.”

 

The trek back to camp was not a the longest he'd made, but it was slow going because of the blustering wind. She was silent for the majority of the trip, only grunting uncomfortably when he lept away to avoid a beast that took too much interest, unused to the feeling of soaring through the air like him. He thought she might puke on him again when he landed particularly hard, but she swallowed hard and took shallow breaths that whistled through her nose. She did this until she was forced to open her mouth to breath again, unable to breath properly from the old wound at the bridge of her nose. After taking a few gasping breaths she nodded her head and they continued on.

 

He was certain that she'd fallen asleep when they rounded the bend and the fort came into view, but she curled her fingers in the neck of his gambeson and leaned up to kiss his cheek, whispering against his skin, “I'm sorry for being like this.”

 

He hefted her up, readjusting his grip on her, because even though she was slight of frame and lean, she was still mostly muscle and that made her _heavy._ She groaned in displeasure and quieted, just holding on so he wouldn't drop her. He tried to think of what Aymeric would say, but nothing that popped up sounded right in the moment.

 

“I do not care if you throw yourself off another cliff,” he said finally, as he continued through the gates, glaring at the guard that made a move towards them. The man stopped in his tracks and that tugged a faint smirk to his lips. Once they were passed him and alone in the arch of the bridge, continued, “Or if you get chewed up, swallowed, and shat out the other end of a dragon.” He watched as she opened her eyes, one dull, sparkling black, the other glowing phosphorescent yellow, and both narrowing at him in annoyance.

 

“Why bother, then,” she rumbled, a little pout settling on her lips as the hurt of his words settled in. He was not saying this right and it frustrated him.

 

He tried again.

 

“Because I do not care if you fight a hundred Garlean machines and get yourself all full of holes,” he huffed when he realized that this was basically what he'd said before.

 

She began to flail in his arms, trying to get him to put her down. He growled and held her tighter, but she was slippery and more likely to bash herself into the cobbles than actually get her footing. When she dug her claws into his injured shoulder and swung a tiny fist at his temple; his patience gave and he slammed her into the wall of the arch.

 

“Why the **fuck** are you here,” she choked as the air was forced out of her lungs and her angry eyes bored into his soul, “Why the fuck did you come to get me?!”

 

“Because,” he practically spit in her face, then a fine tremor setting him shaking with anger and unspoken emotion. His lips pulled taught into streamed down her face, “I don't care if you go out and get thrashed by every damned man, beast, and god out there! I don't CARE if you drink yourself into stupidity and bury yourself in the snow like some rodent for weeks at a time!” Again, he knew that these words weren't the right ones and in a rare show of weakness, he rested his head against her shoulder, rallying for what he really wanted to say, “We just. . . I-. . .” He took a deep breath, swallowed a few times, growled in frustration, and finally, whispered wetly into her skin, “ _ **Aymeric**_ just _needs you to_ _ **come back**_ _. . ._ ” He swallowed a whimper, schooling his shaking breath, and his next words were a bit more steady, his cocky sarcasm coloring them again, “Breathing, preferably.”

 

The tears in her eyes continued as she leaned her head back against the stone brick wall, looking up into the darkness of the alcove. The wall beneath her back hummed with the aetheryte above and she just let it through her, taking in the moment. They were quiet, deathly still but for her sniffles and his heavy breathing. She could feel him tense against her, could feel the tension hanging in the air around them. She was too drunk for something this heavy, too drunk and too tired for all of these emotions. She couldn't handle him being tender and sweet when she was feeling so raw and vulnerable and all _fucked up_. She didn't deserve it and it pissed her off.

 

Even as she let the bitter words slip from her lips, she knew that it was _exactly_ the **wrong** thing to say

 

“Couldn't find a whore to whisper sweet to you, hmm?” She cringed at her own crude joke, waiting for him to strike her or slam her into the wall again, something, anything but say something kind. His rage and wicked sarcasm and careless bitterness she could handle. Anything, but this.

 

She heard him growl, felt his fingers tighten on her shoulders as he pressed her harder into the wall, and she braced herself for a good smack, “Can't afford one, some _**bitch**_ keeps cheating me out of all my hard earned gil . .” He spat, matching hateful words for hateful words, knowing that she hated it when he called her that.

 

She sniffed. Swallowed. Tried, and failed, to blink the tears from her eyes, and finally settled on shifting uncomfortably beneath his grip, chin dipping against her chest in shame, “I deserved that.”

 

“Yes, you did,” and she could feel the fine tremor in his arms as he fought not to bash her into the wall again. He settled her on her feet and took a step back, as though the slight distance would be enough to calm him. It apparently wasn't and he turned to slam his armored fist into the wall across from them, shouting his anger and pain to the night, the aetheryte, and all of the fort.

 

“I knew it,” he hissed, quiet at first, then he slammed both fists into the wall, the impact giving him some kind of relief. Estinien was _**good**_ at angry, “ **I FUCKING KNEW IT**! I _**TOLD**_ Aymeric we shouldn't have asked you!”

 

“We,” she piped up, startled and frozen in place.

 

“Yes, _**WE**_! You _daft_ **cunt** ,” he hissed, turning his gray gaze momentarily to her before turning it away again. But she'd seen the pain there and he pointedly did not look at her now.

 

“You didn't as-”

 

“Of course not! I'm not _good_ with this shit,” he growled, “That's why Aymeric did it!”

 

“But you hat-”

 

His chest heaved and he could only roar at her, he fell to his knees and continued to take out his aggression against the ground, the wall, anything he could reach that wasn't _her_. She was about to step forward when he lifted his pain struck eyes, darkened and cloudy like the storm that tore through the central highlands. His voice came painfully quiet, the strain and softness causing her ears to flick forward so that she could hear him properly, “I know its stupid. I just don't understand why you can love Mesha and Occam and not. . .” He cut himself off, swallowing a strangled cry of rage and slamming his fist into the ground.

 

 _She_ was angry now, tired of being interrupted and angry that he would throw her other lovers into this. He had no right!

 

“I came to Eorzea with Mesha, Estinien! I've known her almost my whole life! And Occam. . . Occam has seen me fall apart and pulled my stupid ass together half a million gods damned times! They know how FUCKED up I am! They know I'm a Twelve's DAMNED wreck! They don't care that I'm a _**piece of shit**_! They **love** me anyway!”

 

“I don't care that you are this _**broken. Fucking. thing**_ ,” he howled, “I don't _**care**_ that you still **love** Haurchefant and I don't _**care**_ that you can't _get over him_! I don't care about any of that shit! _**I FUCKING LOVE YOU, Fucking CRAZYASS BITCH! WHY CAN'T YOU SEE THAT?!**_ ”

 

Her breath caught in her throat at his words, her lungs tightened and she couldn't breath. The world swam before her eyes and she slipped onto her ass, bowled over by the naked conviction and sincerity in his harsh words. It took her a few tries to speak again, her mouth opening and closing, making her look like a particularly _dim_ trout, hooked on his every crass word.

 

“Love me,” she coughed, the knot in her throat choking her and robbing mind of anything more comprehensible.

 

“ _Fury knows why_ , but **yes**! Fucking yes!I fucking _**love**_ you,” he cried and finally the tears fell. **“** Halone I am a _fucking_ idiot,” he sobbed wetly, burying his face in his busted hands and shivering hard.

 

The adrenaline sapped out of her and she could only manage to crawl towards him, falling to her hands and knees and reaching out for him. She hesitated a few times before finally resting a hand on the top of his head. He flinched away as if she'd burned him, but she grabbed his uninjured shoulder and held on. He made to brush her away, grunting in frustration as she held fast and grabbed at his hand with her other. He did not look at her when she pressed her forehead against his. “You've never said,” she whispered.

 

He snorted bitterly, a strangled breath of a laugh, and leaned back against the stones, “I've never sai-. . .” He did look at her then, looking miserable and like someone had murdered his family all over again, “Haven't I _shown_ you?”

 

That struck her, struck her like a ball bearing fired from a musket, right between the eyes. The echo reverberated the thoughts in her aching head and she remembered.

 

Remembered when he was possessed by Nidhogg's shade and him begging her to kill him so that he couldn't hurt them anymore. Remembered him leaving without a word so that his presence wouldn't stir unrest in Ishgard. Remembered the little letters that he sent to Aymeric and how sometimes the words were a little rushed and didn't quite make sense. How the ink had dried in thick blots in places, as though he set the pen to paper and couldn't quite bring himself to say what he wanted to. How he'd appeared, taken down the cannon at Castrum Abania, and left without a word. How she had thought she'd caught a few glimpses of his white hair and blue plate mail in the crowd as Lyse gave her victory speech. How one day after the primary struggled had ended, he'd just breezed back into their lives, still as sarcastic and ornery as though nothing had happened at all. How, even though drunk, he'd thrown her down and tickled her breathless to get at a card she'd stuffed in her bra. How he'd kissed Aymeric so passionately and how he'd tucked her in when she was too drunk to follow them upstairs. How even though she'd burst in on them the next morning, he'd not turned her away, hadn't shouted at her to leave, hadn't covered himself up. How even though he said hateful, angry things to her, he'd still smile when she retaliated with her own. How even though he'd refused to kiss her for months, he'd eventually, and again while drunk, finally kissed her, even if it was on a dare. How even though he would spit and hiss and call her an idiot he'd eventually do what she asked, no matter how insignificant the errand. How even when Aymeric wouldn't come home when he was supposed to, he'd sit and have dinner with her, would share a bottle or three of sweet red, would let her get away with cheating at cards and wouldn't question when she forgot where she was and screamed for hours after waking from some terrible nightmare. How after months of letting Aymeric deal with her, he'd finally whisked her away and held her while she cried like a child, even if it only seemed like it was for Aymeric to get some sleep. How he didn't mind sharing Aymeric with her, even when it seemed he wanted him to himself. How sometimes he'd twine his fingers with she and Aymeric's when they made love to him. How sometimes he would peck her on the cheek or the forehead when she said something stupid, even if it was followed by some kind of derisive comment against her intelligent. How he would come out into the snow. . . How he would drag her home and dumb her in a hot bath to get the chill out of her bones and wouldn't let her out till she was pruney and passing out before he deposited her back into Aymeric's tender mercies. . . How he. . . kissed her. . . sometimes, when he didn't know what else to do with her. . . They're words not wielded as sharpened blades any longer. . .

 

“Yes,” she gasped, closing her eyes against the pain of the echo passing, though she wasn't sure if it was the echo or her own blind idiocy that made her heart constrict and tore the breath from her lungs. She hiccuped and she was crying again because she was stupid and she couldn't even find the words to tell him how sorry she was for ignoring all of the signs, all of the little tells, all of the things he'd done to prove his love for her. There were no words.

 

So she showed him.

 

She dug her fingers into his shoulder, tore his head upwards, and mashed their stupid mouths together. She tore at his lips with her tongue and teeth, shoved her tongue in his mouth and swallowed down his protests with a growl. Her fingers clawed at the buckles of his armor, frantically trying to tug them open to get the stupid fucking freezing metal off of his strong, hot body. Craved the warmth his skin could provide her.

 

He sucked in a breath when they finally parted and she couldn't even get a word out before he mashed them together again, taking her mouth hungrily and passionately and poured all of his pain and anguish and frustration with her down her throat with a choked sob of need.

 

Her gathered her up, clawed gauntlets digging into her thighs and backside and slammed her into the wall again. She gasped out her breath and he was kissing her again before she could get it back, **suffocating** her with _tongue_ , and **teeth** , and _**sensation**_ until she was banging her fists against his chest and bodily shoving him away so that she could just _**breathe**_.

 

They both came away gasping for air, he struggling with the buckles of his armor and she tossing her tunic over her head. She was trying to wiggle out of her breeches when he finally growled his frustration against her neck.

 

“ _Sod it all_ ,” he hissed as he tore off a gauntlet, sending the buckles jangling across the stones and down the path. He shoved that gloved hand down the front of her braes and roughly parted her folds, exposing her clit and bearing down on it with his thumb. While it wasn't entirely pleasant, she didn't have the mind to stop him as he shoved a single finger inside of her. She was searing on this cold night and any little pain he thought to give her, she could accept as pleasure. He had her panting and groaning before she could think to shove him away, anyhow.

 

She shuddered under his hands as she worked the laces on his breeches and used the heels of her feet to shove them down his thighs, exposing him to the cold air and taking him in hand. She roughly fumbled with his cock, claws grazing him as she stroked him up and down, holding the head between thumb and forefinger, running the thumb of her other hand over the little knot just below his head. He sank his teeth into her shoulder, lapping at what blood remained there, and thrust into her hands wantonly.

 

Hands were not enough, ere long, and it was just as he was peeling the leather of her braes over her backside and down her hips that someone came upon them.

 

What a pair they must have made, the Warrior of Light pinned against a wall in the darkness of the arch, dark skin pale with cold and flushed with heat. Her naked breasts heaving and the former bloody Azure Dragoon looming over her, hand down her pants and dry humping into her hands. And never mind the blood, dried in places and still glistening in others, painting them both with gore. They must appear a grizzly mess.

 

“A-Ah,” some guard, some sodding guard. He averted his eyes from her nakedness long enough to reach for his sword and narrow his eyes at the dragoon, “M-my lady?” Ah, right, chivalry and all that.

 

They tore their mouths from each other long enough to shout a quick, “ _ **SOD OFF**_ ,” and give the intruder a withering stare. Storm gray, ebony black, and unnaturally glowing gold. Two separate glares, from equally imposing figures, that alone were enough to make a man piss himself if on the wrong end of it. And he'd gotten the full power of both.

 

The poor man veritably withered away, quickly turning on his heel to escape any wrath he may bring down on his head.

 

Estinien turned back to grunt his annoyance at the bastard for disturbing them, and she barely managed to croak out, “J-just 'round the corn'r. . . Less pryin' Ah-!eyes. . .” He growled his frustration and hiked her up against him, readjusting his grip on her to make ready for the change of scenery. He followed her directions, taking them around the corner and through the door beneath the stairs to the armory. The door gave little resistance as he lifted a foot and kicked it open. It slammed open with a crash and the clattering of metal armaments, sending one of the racks toppling with the force. He cursed and stumbled over the fallen weapons, hitting his knees hard with a squeal of his grieves and mashing her beneath him into the floor. The noise would certainly bring more attention and he intended to make _damned sure_ that any that happened upon them _knew_ what was happening inside this darkened, little room _long_ before they could shine the light of a lantern on them.

 

He tugged her by the ankles and pounded himself into her. Her claws scraped along the plates of his mail and into his back and shoulders. She crossed her feet behind his back and they both thrust their hips as one. With no little force he hilted inside of her, and for a moment there was nothing but the strangled cries of satisfaction and _feeling_ and then their ragged breathing as they adjusted to each other.

 

He rested his cheek against hers, their sweat slicked hair sticking to their skin, and laughed, a small thing, both amused and bitter. She leaned up and nipped his earlobe, sucking it into her mouth and rolling it between her teeth. He ground against her, making her pant heavily into his ear, and he shivered at the feeling of her hot, wet breath in his ear, and the little gasps that fell from her lips were tugging at the thing low in his belly.

 

“ _Fury_ ,” he whispered, digging his fingers into the meat of her behind, earning himself a little hum of appreciation.

 

“Mmh, _Fury_ is it,” she growled, curling her tongue along the shell of his ear and biting the sensitive tip. She dug her heels into his rear and forced them together again, pulling a hissing breath from his lips, “Don't go sweet on me now.” She found the edge of his open wound and dug her claws into its ragged flesh.

 

“Ach! Little bitch,” he spat, giving her a particularly solid gouge in retaliation, which she took with a grateful little purr, “Like it raw, do you, then?”

 

“That's right,” she chuckled cruelly, using her grip with her legs to angle herself upward, reclining back on her elbows and leveling him with her onyx black and unnaturally bright, glowing, golden eye. He gazed into those eyes, lost for a moment as she rocked her hips against him, grinding and riding him as best she could from her position. She was rolling her lower lip between her teeth, stifling her louder moans by bruising them with her fangs, and he liked the way the blood welled just below the surface. There was something bewitching about her being spread out before him, knowing that she had to use her own life's aether to see with the magicked glass eye, knowing that some hour ago she'd been ready to climb into herself and never come out, knowing that he could bring out this brutal side of her with a few hateful words, hands burrowing into her skin, and impaling her on his cock. That, and the stink of sex and blood in the air. It painted a visceral setting for their frayed nerves and hurt feelings and baser needs.

 

She was growling at him again, low and hungry and dangerous, “I might come to my senses if you don't bury me in the ground. . .”

 

He was instantly pounding into her, his grip in the muscles of hips and ass bruising and sharp from his one gauntleted hand. This was good, but . . .

 

“Shit,” she hissed as he re-adjusted his grip and tugged her by her ankles pulling her fully beneath him, throwing her lean muscled legs over his shoulders, and bearing the full weight of himself and his heavy plate down on her. From this angle he could really get deep and she was really crowing now, a sharp shout of pleasure/pain every time he slammed against her cervix. She curled her arms under her knees and held on for dear life as he rutted her into the stones with reckless, careless abandon, no care for her comfort. She seemed to get off on it and he could feel his thrusts going in easier, less resistance as she cried out and swore and spat, getting wetter by the second.

 

“Yess! Fu-uck! Ah!”

 

Now all that was left was to get her to _scream his name_.

 

He grabbed at her ankles again, tearing her legs up over her head, practically folding her in half and forcing the air out of her lungs with the weight of him. She rasped for a few more thrusts before he was driving her into the ground and she was screaming every obscenity and filthy word her mind could conjure, cursing the Seven Hells and **every . Last. Damned. One.** of the Twelve in a hoarse chorus of blasphemous ruin.

 

 _Everything_ but his _**name**_. He longed for her name to be torn from her throat, to hear it in the air as she fell apart beneath him, but nothing. How he wanted to hear it. _**Needed**_ to hear it. The way that she shouted Aymeric's name when he made-love to her. Or how she cried Haurchefant's name in her fits of nightmare. Anything just to hear it now.

 

She swallowed hard and her voice was raw, pained and pleasured and needy, and he could almost taste her undoing on his lips as she quaked beneath him.

 

She was stubborn and bull-headed and callous and hateful and he hated and loved her and he just wanted her to want him as much as he wanted her and. . .

 

Stars burst behind his eyes and it was all he could do not to drown in her. The essence of her sweat on his skin and the musk of her sex and that faint spice of foreign lands that she carried with her and the sound of her voice, ravaged from pleasure and pain and her drowning sorrows and for a moment he thought he could hear the dulcet bell tone of the songs she used to sing. Sang when she was happy and in love and wasn't slowly killing herself with drink and self-loathing. The songs she sang when Haurchefant was alive.

 

He groaned her name as he slumped against her, grinding into her wet heat and milking his orgasm for all it was worth. She was suffocatingly tight and he thought he might black out from the **all** of her that bore into his senses like some sickly sweet perfume cloying the air from his lungs.

 

Her breathing was ragged and heavy, her body shaking from the force of her own orgasm, and the little sounds that wheezed out of her were pained and tear some and strained from the weight of him crushing her into the bitter cold stones below them. He gave her one last forceful thrust, eliciting a pitiful little sound from her wrecked throat and leaving her sticky and dripping with his cum.

 

He rolled to the side of her and flattened himself on his back. They lay there just breathing, just being for what felt like hours. He couldn't even look at her, couldn't stand to see the regret and hatred in her face that was sure to be there. He'd all but forced himself on her, even if she came around to it eventually and it made him feel disgusting. It was deplorable and he would carry this shame to an early grave.

 

A little sound reached his ears and he was almost tempted to fall on his spear at how weak it was.

 

“Es-,” she was wheezing, and he could hear the effort it was taking her just to _breathe_.

 

“Esti-hah-Estinien,” she whispered and he felt her fingers curl weakly around his forearm.

 

Her name on his lips after all that he'd done to her made him wish he weren't born.

 

“Estinien,” she breathed a little louder, a little more frantic and she circled her long fingers around his naked wrist, “I-I uh. . . I think you-.” She took a deep, wet breath, but a little breathless laugh choked out of her, “I think. . . you took me a little to literally. . .” Her could feel her hot breath on his cheek and he dared to look over at her.

 

Her face was a cross between serene content and begruding pain and he thought that his heart might beat out of his chest. She was bloody smiling at him.

 

“How are you,” he choked, shaking his head in disbelief.

 

“W-what's wrong,” she chuckled, and he could hear the mirth in her tired voice.

 

“What's wrong,” he hissed, he couldn't help himself. He'd just forced her into his arms, fucked her into the paves and probably _broken her in half._ And she was asking _him_ what was wrong. He shouted it into the air as though putting it in the open would help relieve his guilt ridden mind.

 

“Estinien,” she murmured, rolling to face him with a grimace. She shut her eyes for a long moment before looking at him again, a little smile curling her lips, “Estinien, I _love_ you.”

 

“Halone, you're mad,” he crowed, awe struck and unbelieving.

 

“I mean,” she snorted, rolling her beautiful mismatched eyes in irritation, “You don't go throwing yourself at _gods_ and fighting **other people's** wars if you're not a _little_ touched. . .” She squirmed closer and pressed her soft, ruined lips to his torn shoulder, before her voice was husky in his ears again, “Don't go tearing dragon eyes out of a man if you're not a little _fucked up_. . .” She reached out to take his chin in her hand, turning his head to brush her lips against his, “Don't let a man throw you around and break you down if you don't _**love**_ him. . .”

 

“Are you like this with Aymeric,” was the only thing he could think to say.

 

“No,” she _giggled._

 

He rolled over to look at her properly, seeing her onyx orb , “You _crazy_ bitch. . .”

 

“You're crazy bitch,” she murmured the question against his neck, twining his fingers into her snowy locks.

 

He pressed himself over her and breathed her in, his relief palpable and all encompassing. She squirmed beneath him and he heard her swear. “I-I uh, I think ya might've,” and her next breath puffed out of her in a wince, “I-I think you might've . . . _cracked_ one of my ribs. . . with yer armor. . .”

 

“Your ri-,” he brought a hand to his mouth and squeezed his eyes shut. Aymeric was _**actually**_ going to **kill him**. Drive him through with his big ass sword and bury him in an unmarked grave for this.

 

“ _Fury, save my soul_. _I am a_ _ **dead**_ _man. . ._ ”

 

**Author's Note:**

> Please leave kudos and comments if you would like to see more of this ridiculousness from me and I'll be happy to post more later. I'm currently working on a really cute smut piece of Aymeric and Estinien.
> 
> (The story hasn't updated, but I wanted to share this hilarious song that I heard today that just fits perfectly for this pairing. It's called 'Cowards' by Raleigh Ritchie. Just listen to it, you'll get it. XD)


End file.

She had been confident, once.

Sure in her strength and convictions. Sure of the path she walked. Sure that she would not falter in the face of danger. Sure that she could defeat any evil she faced. Whether with bow, or sword, or ax, she would defeat any foe.

Warrior of Light, they had called her, then.

There had been a time that she was unbreakable. A time that people revered her as a glorious Warrior, strong and iron willed. How many times had she been asked to help? Help with things that did not concern her, but still, she did so without question. There was a time that people relied on her for strength, for comfort. Pillar to all that met her, the unshakable hero. The irrefutable hand of good and justice.

She would bring happiness back to this broken world.

Or so she thought.

A moment of weakness. A moment that she could not afford. She stumbled. She faltered. She fell.

The people that had once relied on her had turned against her. Called her traitor. Called her murderer. Toppled the golden pedestal they had placed her on.

All of the world had seemed to be against her.

So far did she fall.

Her heart, body, and soul had been broken.

Until she found him.

She had found happiness, once.

A happiness that was slow to come, but he coaxed it from her. Expecting nothing. Offering only comfort and companionship. With poetic words, he soothed her soul. With gentle hands, he healed her wounds. And with his love, he mended her heart.

He loved her with all of his being.

With words he loved her.

When her mind play against her, filling her with doubt, he soothed her. When lovingly he held her, he whispered sweet words to her. When they lay together, furious and passionate, he cried out her name.

With arms he loved her.

When fear and sorrow and guilt tore at her, he picked up the pieces. When she felt she would break over and over and over again, he held her together. When she woke screaming, her mind terrorizing her with memories of betrayal and turmoil, he held her. When they rocked together, he clung to her.

With lips, he loved her.

When she sobbed, heart aching, he would kiss the tears from her face. When she smiled, sincere and bright, he kissed her, lips gently upon her own. When they were alone, he kissed her, lips and teeth and tongue trailing down sensitive skin, making her shiver and quake and cry out for him.

With his heart, he loved her.

 

 

**Author's Note:**

> This is one of two VERY short stories I've written. This is my first attempt at writing something in nearly 12 years.  
> (Please be kind and leave kudos or comments to let me know if you enjoy this.)


End file.

**Author's Note:**

> I've been wanting to write this for a long time -- it includes things I alluded to in previous installments of The David Chronicles, as well as just some fun backstory type things.

Deedee, 

We hope you’re staying warm up there in Ishgard. We assume you are still refusing to wear clothes. We support you. Don’t get frostbite.

Modi told us about your friend. We’re so sorry. Come home soon, we’ll make baked apples and hot chocolate like we did when you were little. Both in age and in size. You were tiny once.

We know he was proud to call you his friend. It’s not your fault he’s gone. Don’t be so hard on yourself, darling. We know you tend to do that. We’re proud of you for having the strength to leave your room.

Amh, of course, is always welcome to come for apples; as are your other friends. Johnothan, if he wants to come, is also welcome. Apples are not in short supply.

Remember, of course, that the Nymeia Lily that blooms in adversity is always the best with a shield.

May she guide you.

Please stay safe,  
Mom and Dad

\----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dav, 

I love you, you know I do, and you love me. But we don’t love each other they way boyfriends do, darling. You know you had feelings for Haurchefant. I know you had feelings for Haurchefant. And because of this I can no longer pretend that we are meant to be. We were never meant to be bonded eternally before the twelve. If you truly loved me, you’d not have fallen for another.

I will never forget the way we laughed together, how sweetly you sang me to sleep at night, or the time your tiara fell on me while we were in your room and then I headbutted you and we yelled and practically alerted the whole house to what we were doing. That’s a very fond memory of mine. You are a very fond memory of mine. 

But that is all we’re going to be, my love. A memory. And it’s not your fault, and it’s not mine. Menphina just didn’t grace us with her blessing. It’s not in the stars. 

This is, of course, not easy for me. I know it’s not easy for you either. I know you really need me right now. Or, you think you do. You really don’t. You have amazing friends like Amh and Na’ir and Mhoto’to and your parents and sister. You don’t need me. What you need is someone who’s gonna be able to be what you need, and that’s what i need too. I am very sorry that it turned out this way. I was hoping we would be able to muddle through.

This is me setting you free. Free to be who you want to be.

This is me saying goodbye.

Although we will move on and soon we will become a mere memory, I will always love you. If only in my memories, I will always love you. And I know you will always love me, even if it’s only in the past.

I am honored to have spent as much time with you as I did, and I am glad that it was enjoyable.

You’ll find who you need, but who you need isn’t me anymore.

You’re strong.

With love always,  
Johnothan Cotter

\----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Deedee,

I saw a half-off sale on clothes today at the market. I thought of you.

They were cut in half.  
-Dad

\----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Deedee

Hey baby brother. I haven’t seen you around in a while. I heard you lost a friend. That sucks. If you ever wanna talk about it, maybe consider someone besides me, but I’ll listen if I must. Completely unrelated, do you happen to know Johnothan’s current address? I have something I need to give him.

Don’t ask questions.  
Tory

\----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

David Alexandraux Douxmont,

We would love to have you as a sultansworn, once the world is no longer in danger. That is, of course, if you would want that. You’re a skilled paladin who has exhibited fierce loyalty to Ul’dah, Eorzea, and your friends. You must make your mother very proud.

We insist that you are qualified of your own merit, not because of who your mother is. 

Thank you for your consideration.  
Jenlyns

\----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

David,

We had a good time last night. I’d like to see you again, but I can’t tell you how often I’ll be around. Probably not very often. Maybe we should just stay friends. That’s probably best for the bushes, too.

Nice meeting you, though  
Jack Moonstone

\----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

David,

Thanks for, uh, showing me the ropes. Perhaps another shower may be in order. But uh, I’m not gay. So.

Let’s not think about it too much  
Alvo Jun

\----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Deedee,

I was told you were invited to be a sultansworn. I’m proud of you. However, do they know what they’re doing? David Douxmont? A sultansworn? You might tarnish their image. I don’t think they have many strippers in their ranks.

With love (and pride),  
Mom

\----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

David A. Douxmont

I hath heard through yonder grapevine that thou insist my “hips do not lie”. Flattered though I may be, thou hast been highly unprofessional in uttering it to thine fellow adventurers and I find mine appreciation for being objectified is nonexistent. Please refrain from even allowing the phrase to dance across thy mind forthwith. 

This will be thine only warning.  
Urianger Augurelt  
Scion of the Seventh Dawn

\----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

David,

Hey! I’m going to be in town this week and wanted to know if you’d wanna chill. Or, if not, pretend I said nothing. 

I’ll have a room at the quicksand.  
Jack

\----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

David Douxmont

‘Twas a lovely meeting betwixt you and I. I should like for it to happen again.

Yours truly,  
Ontront Zeridane

\----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

David,

So uh, that’s weird, how that happened again. And again. And again. I, in fact, may actually want it to happen again?

How did that song go? The one you sang that first night? “This ain’t love, it’s clear to see, but darling stay with me”? Something like that I’m sure. No homo though.

I don’t want you to leave.

Still not gay.  
Alvo

\----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

David,

Benis.

-Amh

\----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

David Douxmont

We really had a rousing good time the other night. Had a lot of fun. 

Let’s do that again  
Adeh’a Matli

\----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

David,

Hey bro, I’ve not seen you in a while. How’ve you been? Taken any interesting showers? Gone anywhere fun? I’ve been spending a ridiculous amount of time at The Vault. It’s difficult at first, of course, but it gets easier. You should see the axe I got though. Aymeric sure liked it. Anyway, I’m writing to ask if you want to like, get bonded to me. But only as bros. No romantic or sexual connotations. None whatsoever. No homo.

Anyway let me know I guess. 

Alvo

\----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

D. A. Douxmont

Congratulations on your recent engagement. We at the goldsmith’s guild extend our services to thee and thy fiance.

Thank you for your consideration

\----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

David

Hey kiddo, I was just writing to let you know I’ll be attending your wedding, as will Robert. We’re very excited for you and Alvo. 

You two must be happy  
Henrik

\----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

David!

I was so excited to receive your letter, of course I’ll be at your bonding ceremony! I’m so happy for you. I am honored you’d ask me to be the photographer, too, though I’ll need someone to help me scavenge for Garlean camera accessories if you’re up to help with that. 

Sending prayers your journey goes well!  
Nenela

\----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Hey, husbro,

I’m sure I should probably tell you this in person but, well, that’s just not how it happened this time.

There’s no easy way to say this.

Anyway, I just wanted to let you know I’ve decided annulling our marriage is the best decision for me right now. See, your cousin Furiosa and I are kind of together and I think I want to get bonded for the right reasons this time. I think I love her.

I hope you’re not upset with me. Please don’t be upset with me. I feel like you’re far more invested in us than I am. I don’t want to hurt you, you’re my friend. But this was never the end-game for me. You know that. I was lonely, David. This was no strings attached for me. We were never going to grow old together.

I thought I could fix myself -- my loneliness -- with you, and I did, but now I see how unfair this is. You… you love me. I can see it in your eyes. I, of course, love you; but it was never like that. You’re a great friend, David. A fierce friend. A loyal friend. 

That said, I am glad we did this. I think it was good for us. It will teach us both what not to do next time. 

Please forgive me  
Alvo

\----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

David

I’m stokpling maypel sireup. It sownds lyke your going 2 need it.

He dint desrve you anyay.

-Amh

\----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Deedee,

Baby I am so sorry. I know this was a “bro bonding” or whatever you were calling it, but ending things still cannot feel good. Probably feels like a swift shield bash to the head (as you know, those are brutal).

Your father and I miss you. Tory too. Come home. Let us remind you you are loved in this world.

I’ll make pumpkin stew.

If you tell anyone I’m nice I’ll let Tory set your hair on fire again.

With all my love,  
Mama

\----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dav,

I haven’t seen you in a while. Heard you got married, but you’re not anymore. That’s awful, I’m sorry. I know you don’t want to hear this now, but it’s going to be a good thing. You’ll pick yourself up, just like always. Breakups seem like endings, but they’re really new beginnings. But you know that, don’t you? 

I… I am sorry for how things ended. I’m sorry for bringing it up too. I’m gonna just… Stop putting my foot in my mouth. 

Anyway, I was going to be in Ul’dah soon, if you’re still living there. Let me know if you’d like to meet for lunch or something.

Johnothan Cotter

\----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

David

Hey! I’m in town for a few weeks and thought I’d see if you’d wanna hang out. From what I’ve heard, you could use some time to relax. 

How long are we going to be seeing each other like this? Sporadically, when it’s convenient. Is this good for us? What’s going to happen when we find other ways to occupy our time? People we want to be with? 

It’s going to be weird when we do end up making the change from casual lovers to friends, but I think we’re gonna be able to handle it.

Anyway, see you soon  
Jack

\----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

David Douxmont

I hear you’re who I should contact for a good time. I have a very… Specific situation, let’s say. I would like to discuss it with you beforehand, if that’s alright. I don’t mind paying you for your time. You must be a busy man, saving Eorzea and all.

I’d like to clarify that it’s not bad or anything. I’m not sick. It’s just…. Something different. And I don’t want to take you by surprise.

So! Write me back if you’re up to it.  
Ima’ra Khopa

\----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

David

I was told by a friend you’ve amassed quite a following. That you keep their letters. 

Since we were together the other night, I wanted to be a part of it.

Regards,  
Yohnu’sae Tyuhar

\----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Deedee

Did I see that you wrote mom that Johnothan wrote you? What the fuck is that about? Do I need to kill him? Did you write back? Give me the details, sister.

Modi tells me you’ve been frequenting the Quicksand with a bunch of different people. Maybe do your business somewhere else? You’re pretty conspicuous. 

I hope they’re treating you well.  
Tory

\----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Lahen’s grocery list

Potions  
Antidotes  
MORE ANTIDOTES FUCK YOU X’RHUN  
Cheese  
Milk  
A N T I D O T E S (-X’rhun Tia)

\----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

David

I just wanted to thank you for being so understanding. I’d like to see you again, if that’d be okay.

Ima’ra 

\----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

David,

Are you coming to my eternal bonding? I understand if not, but you’re invited nonetheless.

Furi

\----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

David

Thanks for finding me and returning my shopping list. Didn’t want to forget my antidotes.

Lahen

\----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Bro

Thanks for coming to the wedding. It meant a lot to Furi and I. 

I’m glad we’re still friends  
Alvo

\----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

David

Ur singing cairles wispr a lot. I no u think ur ok, but i think ur lieng 2 urself. We shood go owt. Fined soem maypel sirup. Hav a good tim. 

U worrie me.  
Amh

\----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

David

You’re infamous in the community. Am I to become part of your collection now? You know, most people just notch their bed post.

I hope to see you again.  
Himi’to Zirsha

\----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

David  
Thanks.

I realized about halfway through writing ‘thanks’ that I’m not sure ‘thanks’ is what you say in this situation.

I had fun though.

Yen’to Tahzun

\----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Bruh

Hey, Douxmont, long time no see. Saving the world is tough ain’t it? Yeah. My parents say hi. 

So listen, have you tried somnus? It’s an experience, man. You definitely should try it. Hit me up or something. 

Later  
Y’tulah 

\----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

David

Hey, I was wondering if we could see each other soon. I’m going to be gone for quite a while and I don’t know where either of us will be when I come back. There’s a good chance I won’t see you again. If nothing else, I’d like to say goodbye. 

You’ve shown me understanding and kindness and I would love to thank you properly. Just once more. It’s not easy for someone like me out there.

Write me back  
Ima’ra

\----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Baby brother

We haven’t heard from you for a few days, where you at?

Tory

\----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

David

I heard your ex died. That must sting. I’m so sorry. 

Momodi told me you were in The Quicksand with a handsome man. She said he seemed pretty special, and that you were on a proper date. Nice job, man. I’m really happy for you.

We should actually get lunch sometime, though.  
Jack

\----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

David

I’m leaving today. I heard you’ve got a proper boyfriend now. Congrats!

I’ve heard you’re also leaving soon. I don’t know when this letter will reach you. 

If I never see you again, I just… Wanted to say thank you. In writing. You’re gonna do great things, David.

I’m glad I met you.  
Ima’ra

\----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Deedee

Xha’a stopped by today. I guess he actually misses you or something. He says you’re doing well out there. Maybe you should call mom and dad at some point. They probably also miss you or something.

Maybe call me too. Not that I miss you or anything. I just wanna hear that you aren’t dead.

Come home soon  
Tory

\----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

David!

Happy birthday! We can’t believe you’ve seen twenty-one years. You’re growing up too fast. We’ll be throwing you a party when you get home. 

With all our love,  
Mama, Papa, Tory, Mother, Charlie, Anne, and Xha’a.

\----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

David Alexandraux,

I saw a man swimming in a fountain today and thought of you. I figured you’d think it was funny. Sounds like something you and your friends would get into.

I am unsure how long letters will take to get to you. But I hope this one finds you in good health.

Charlesoix has developed a fast interest in living things since he’s been here. He’s even fond of rats now; though I am not sure how I feel about that.

Annette continues to dominate everyone in Triple Triad. No one is surprised.

I saw Xha’a the other day, when I was in Ishgard. I said hi. 

We still haven’t won the manor back from Alex. I was hoping that’d be over with by now, but, alas. Hopefully I’ll have it back when you return, then I can take you on a proper tour.

Please come home.

All my love,  
Jeannette Verte Douxmont

\----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

David

Hey, I think mother wanted me to write you. I’ve begun studying in the city with a Lalafellan woman -- we’re quite literally writing the book on the living things in Eorzea, including you and I. I’m really excited.

In order to overcome my fear of rats, I’ve gotten a pet one. His name is Gerald. You would like him. 

Not a day goes by that I am not thankful you came into our lives. Annette, of course, was always father’s favorite; I worried not for her, but for mother and myself. We didn’t realize how bad things were.

Well! I must get back to work. I hope you’re well.  
Charlesoix Dieudonnet Douxmont

\----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

David

I find that, though we’ve not known each other long, I am very aware of your absence. I never got to kick your ass in Triple Triad, so you had better come back in one piece. Mother is quite worried.

Father is still in custody, and though I am loathe to say it, I am glad. It seems he may be in custody for a long time. We’re in the process of getting our home back. If that’s the case, you can stay there if ever you need somewhere to stay. I’m pretty sure mother kept your old bedroom locked up. There always was a room I wasn’t allowed in.

So, that’s that.  
Annette Camiliane Douxmont

\----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Deedee

We heard Doma was liberated. We’re so proud of you.

With all our love  
Mom, Dad, Tory

\----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Deedee

It’s weird not seeing you around. Your family is highly worried, but proud. I saw Xha’a today; he tells me there’s no need to worry.

I’m glad you’re doing better. Losing your ex husband must have been really rough on you. I’m glad you have someone to help you through that.

You’ve grown so much.  
Momodi

\----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dear David,

I’m glad you wrote me about your experience, sorry it’s taken me so long to get back to you. I had known you’d passed out during the fight with Zenos, but not that you’d thought you were dying. You’ve passed out before, haven’t you? What made this time different? Were you afraid that you were in the process of dying or that you would be killed when you fell unconscious? 

It doesn’t really matter I suppose. Those questions are more for you to understand what happened.

Dying is scary. We’re all going to die one day. But now isn’t your time. Your time won’t come for a long time. 

Please, feel free to write me if ever you need anything.  
Robert

\----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

David Alexandraux Douxmont

Raubahn has told me about your courage and determination in battle. None of this would be possible without you, and though this does not directly affect Ul’dah, I would like to thank you personally.

Raubahn is my closest friend and I thank you for helping him liberate his homeland. Ul’dah misses you -- I hope you’ll be returning home. I request an audience with you when you do, at your earliest convenience.

Sincerely,  
Nanamo Ul Namo  
Sultana of Ul’dah  
17th of her Line

\----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Deedee

Ala Mhigo? Liberated? Never thought I’d see the day. We’re proud of you.

Come home soon,  
Mom, Dad, Tory, Xha’a

\----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------........


End file.

I can’t really compare to the brilliant blue of the ocean though. Or, since this place is called Vesper Bay, this kind of water is called a bay? I’m not sure. The only water we have back home is the river.

To be honest, Vesper Bay is a little bit creepy. It is so empty. There are a lot of buildings that you can tell nobody goes into. It’s a far cry from my home village. There every building is full of life. But here, it’s almost as if the people have simply abandoned this place. I’ve read about places like this. A town of ghosts, or something like that.

I took sort of a roundabout route to get to Ul’dah, but I was almost there. Just a little bit farther, and Phase One my plan to become an adventurer would be complete. Well, I would still need to find and sign up with the Adventurers’ Guild. So, only Phase One Part One of my plan to become an adventurer would be complete.

While entertaining my own thoughts, I glanced over to the carriage that was going to carry me to my destiny. We were just waiting on an older merchant to finish loading up his wares. It was taking a while. I guess he does a lot of business. That’s probably fun. Going all over the world, meeting all sorts of people. I bet it’s great.

I never really had a head for numbers. Or talking to people. It’s not my fault if I get a little tongue tied. Other people can be so impatient about it. They never really say anything, but you can see it in their eyes.

I’ve heard stories about a Xaela tribe that doesn’t speak at all. That wasn’t too different how I normally lived. Nobody wants a talkative maid.

I guess it doesn’t matter now. It’s not like anyone this far west is going to know what family I served anyway.

He looked like he was having a tough time moving some of those crates. I made my way over. He didn’t look up as I took the other end.

I turned to my companion, a surly miqo’te girl with dark skin and shockingly white hair. We had met on the ferry to Vesper Bay, and became fast friends almost instantly. She seems to prefer that I don’t have much to say.

“We should help him out.” I said. She narrowed her eyes at me, her brow furrowing as if she were trying to work out a difficult problem.

“Why should we? He can handle it.” She shrugged, turning away from the man pointedly.

“Pardon me, do you mind if I help out?” I asked, hoping he could understand me through my accent. I’ve been told mine isn’t particularly thick, but sometimes people don’t always understand what I mean. It can be a little frustrating.

The man laughed. I couldn’t tell if he was laughing at me, or if he was just happy. I wouldn’t have been too surprised if it was the former. I’m used to people not expecting much from me.

“Eager to get on the road?” the man asked.

“A little.” I admitted, somewhat sheepishly. What can I say? I’ve been planning this operation ever since that traveller happened upon our village years ago.

I guess I can stand to be a little more patient. After all, Ul’dah isn’t going anywhere.

“Well, alright. Just be careful. These crates are a little-” His thought trailed off as I lifted the box easily and placed it into the cart. I am always happy to surpass expectations.  
I wasn’t surprised when I heard another person approach with a frown and a scolding, “You’re going to hurt yourself that way. Come on.”

She helped me load the boxes into the cart, making sure that we each took a side. I’m not sure why she was being so fussy about it. I’m kind of on the small side, even for an au ra, but that doesn’t mean I’m weak.

The work went quickly now that there were three of us. The merchant was quick to make conversation. Apparently this used to be a bustling port town, until the Calamity. The fishing dried up, and ever since people have been steadily moving to greener pastures.

Everyone in all the world heard about the Calamity, even a lowly servant in a remote mountain village like me. Even now remembering that big red thing coming closer with each turn of the moon made my blood run cold. The details are pretty fuzzy, but the core concepts are the same. A monster hatched out of the lesser moon and devastated the land until suddenly it was stopped. Hearing the stories was one thing, but seeing the effects in person is something else entirely.

“The name’s Brendt. And you?” he asked.

“Kurushiki no Asami.” I answered. It was spelled with the characters for spinning thread, weaving, and morning in the old language.

He probably didn’t need to know what characters I use to spell my name. He likely knew nothing of the ancient script of my people. Even my own people knew very little of it now that we were trying to assimilate with the rest of the world. I was just lucky enough that the young master noticed I had taken to listening in on his lessons.

My young master is a very kind person. He would always find me when I wasn’t too busy with my chores to go over his lessons with me. He always told anyone who tried to stop him that teaching me helped him to understand the material better, so they wouldn’t complain. Sometimes he would even invite me to observe his training matches and lessons with his swordmaster.

“Ah. You Auri put your family names first, don’t ya?” Brendt asked. I nodded. He sure was knowledgeable. I guess he had to be in order to be a merchant. “Here in Eorzea we list our given names first.”

“Oh… My apologies. I am Asami Kurushiki.” I corrected myself. I had a feeling I had been told that once before. It was a habit to introduce myself that way. I gestured to my sullen friend and hastily added, “And this is my friend Khloe.”

She never actually told me her family name. I’m curious, but I also don’t want to pry. It could be a sore subject or something.

“You two are new adventurers, aren’t you?” Brendt asked. His powers of perception were amazing. I did have cheap armor and mismatched cesti at my hips. But anyone can carry a weapon.

“Is it that obvious?” I asked.

“All you fresh-faced adventurers have a certain look about you. You’ll learn to pick up on it soon enough.” he assured me, “What is it that attracted you to such a dangerous job?”

“Ah. A few years ago an adventurer came through my village. He told us all about all sorts of far away places. I guess I just wanted to see them for myself.” I explained. He was a kind stranger, but a stranger nonetheless. He didn’t need to know my true reasons.

“Money.” Khloe answered shortly. Brent laughed at her blunt reply.

“Adventure and fortune is all well and good, but it’s not worth anything if you’re not alive to enjoy it. Make sure you two don’t push yourselves too hard.” the old merchant warned us. He was very kind.

“Have you two been travelling together long?” Brendt was just so full of questions.

“We aren’t travelling together.” Khloe said. I giggled. She was pretty shy about that kind of thing. Khloe shot me a mean look before continuing, “We’re just heading to the same place… and she’s got weird ideas about it.”

Once we were ready to go, I looked at the other people in the carriage. Aside from Khloe, myself, and the merchant, there were only two other people. They were both white haired elzen who didn’t seem interested in making conversation. That suited me fine.

I wanted to have a look at the scenery. We don’t have deserts back home. I had never seen so much sand. It’s beautiful, in its own way. Khloe seemed wholly unimpressed, choosing to shut her eyes. Her breath steadied until it became apparent she had fallen asleep. Between the unchanging scenery and the slight rocking of the carriage, I found it hard to keep my own eyes open.

I was planning on staying around Ul’dah for a while, so it wasn’t too big of a deal if I took a little nap.

My amazing idea thoroughly rationalized, I found myself plunged into a familiar dream.

I stood in the sky, so far up that I couldn’t even see Hydaelyn anymore. Surrounded by void and faraway stars. I’m not certain what I was standing on. It is only an empty void. In the inky blackness there was a blue glow, brighter than the stars. It was so far away that I wasn’t sure what it was supposed to be. But somehow I could trust that whatever it was wouldn’t hurt me.

It’s voice cut through the distance. I heard it in my soul, rather than through my ears. It speaks to me, the same words it always says, “Hear… Feel… Think”  
It’s always the same three words. No matter how long I think about it, I don’t really understand what it means. I know that light wants to tell me something, but it’s being so cryptic. I would understand better if it just told me what it wanted.

Usually I would wake up at this point filled with the need to go somewhere. I’ve had these dreams for as long as I can remember. When I was small I would wake and wander the house, or sometimes venture out into the village in the middle of the night.

When I say house, I do not mean to imply that it was my house, or my family’s house. It was the house where we served. It had a comfortable servants’ quarters where I and the others who served our master slept and took our meals. Some would even call it generous. It wasn’t glamorous, but working for the royal family was steady work. I was grateful for it.

Once or twice I went further, into the forests and the mountains. I didn’t find my way back home until well into the morning. When I came back the young master was so angry with me.

No matter how far into the forest I went, I could never find whatever it was my dreams wanted me to see.  
It wasn’t until an adventurer happened upon our village that I realized I was looking in the wrong place. What I was searching for was somewhere far away. Farther than I had ever gone, or probably ever would have gone if not for the dreams.

Today’s dream was different. It didn’t end where they always did.

A new light appeared. Small and orange. As I stepped forward to investigate, it exploded with dark energy.

“Hear… Feel… Think…” The voice repeated as a masked figure in a black cloak emerged from the blackness. Whoever this was, I knew he meant to hurt me. Not just me, everyone.

But I have the power to stop them. Just as the thought occurred to me, something within me changed. There was a flash of light, and suddenly I was changed on the outside as well. I was wearing a strange outfit I had never seen before, and wielding claws made out of light. Yellow isn’t really my color, and I’m not terribly used to wearing pants. Back home I always wore kimonos, or ceremonial robes if the situation called for it.

I woke up, my heart pounding.

“Hey, Lass. Y’all right?” the merchant from before asked.

I wasn’t sure. The overwhelming wanderlust that usually accompanied those dreams had been replaced by a deep sense of dread. Something terrible was going to occur.

“Feelin’ the effects of the aether, I reckon,” Brendt said. He smiled gently, “Don’t worry. You’ll get used to it.”

“Ah. It’s a bit thicker here than what I’m used to.” I admitted. It was a little weird. Was all of Eorzea full of aether like this? I don’t really understand things like this, so I thought it would be smart to ask while we were talking about it, “Why is that?”

“Ah…” The man’s smile faltered. Maybe he didn’t know either, “I’m just a humble merchant. I leave questions like that to the scholars.”

I nodded. That made sense.

The cart jostled to a stop. I looked around curiously. Two men in heavy looking uniforms walked up to the carriage, while some similarly dressed friends stood off to the side staring the other way. The first man had the swagger of a man who was clearly in charge. The thick fabrics and chainmail seemed like they would be really uncomfortable to wear in the desert heat, but they didn’t seem especially bothered by it.

“Inspection. Men, search the carriage.” the guy in charge said.

Inspection? What were they inspecting? The carriage seemed sound enough to me. It creaked a little, but I didn’t think anything was broken. I got my answer once they started going through the merchant’s bags.

Khloe made a quiet noise of distaste and leaned over to me and hissed a warning, “Do yourself a favor and keep your mouth shut around these guys.”

“I’m just an honest merchant. Don’t be too disappointed when you don’t find anything.”

“Mind your tongue, lest I cut it out.” the one who was in charge said. I wasn’t sure I liked these people.

I watched the man who was searching the bags pull something from his pocket and pretend he found it in the merchant’s bags. I almost forgot Khloe’s warning and said something, but Brendt just laughed.

“Business as usual.” the merchant waved me off in a tone that sounded like he meant _it can’t be helped._

I frowned and turned away. Was this really normal in this part of the world? I had thought that places that weren’t under imperial control would be better, but it looked like it was the same everywhere. People in power lorded it over the rest of us, and didn’t care who they trampled.

Looking off in the distance I could see something large with black scales flit behind the hills. I ignored the disgusting abuse of power in front of me to try and get a closer look. Had I really seen something, or was this some sort of trick of the light?

The answer came swiftly. A giant man-shaped thing charged over the hill at top speed, a bow at the ready.

“Lookout!” I cried, alerting the other passengers to the incoming attack. The kind merchant flinched as the arrow narrowly missed him and buried itself into the wood near my feet.

The men in the armor ran to engage the creatures, Almaj’aa. I’ve read about them in books. A warrior tribe of lizard-like humanoids that worships fire and strength. What were they doing attacking random carriages? There weren’t likely to be any warriors worth challenging on a carriage such as this.

“That kind of excitement ain’t good for the heart.” Brendt laughed, “Thank the gods for sending beastmen to the rescue, eh?”

I had heard that term before. Beastmen were what the people of Eorzea called tribes like the Almaj’aa. I’m not rightly sure what separates beast tribes from spoken tribes. I know Au Ra are not beast tribes though, which means I am legally able to enter Ul’dah. Beastmen are banned from the desert city. I have no idea why.  
The grizzled merchant looked at me seriously for a moment, “You be careful ‘round those Brass Blades, ya hear? They’ll take the clothes right off your back if they fancy them. Like common bandits, only less honest.”

I nodded. That sounded like helpful advice. The Brass Blades were probably those guys in uniforms before. That sounds like the name of a mercenary company or something similar.

“Is this your first trip to Ul’dah?” the merchant asked. I nodded and he smiled at my response, “Well then, let this journeyed itinerant tell you the ins an' outs of your destination.”

That sounded really helpful. I was so glad I had made such a nice friend already. Maybe I was wrong about this place. Maybe I would get along just fine. I just needed to avoid getting mixed up with those Brass Blade folks.

His explanation seemed to stick to the political climate. Despite the sultana ostensibly being the ruler of Thanalan, the real power lay with a group called the Syndicate. I was honestly hoping I would learn more about how to fit in while I was here. Au Ra are rare enough in these parts, I don’t want to make it worse by committing a bunch of cultural faux pas. Although, any information was likely useful information. Now I knew who to publicly raise my toasts to.

“Behold, Ul’dah. The Jewel of the Desert.” Brendt said.

I looked at the city and felt my breath catch in my throat. It was enormous. Bigger than any village I had ever seen. Bigger than all of the villages I had ever seen combined. I guess that was the difference between villages and cities. Over the thick stone walls that surrounded the city I could see shining buildings made of white stone. It reminded me of a glittering mountain.

How many people had to live in there? A thousand? More? It seemed unbelievable that so many people existed, much less that they all lived in the same place.

Amazing! It was just so amazing!

“I’m afraid this is where we part ways.” Brendt said, pulling my attention away from how big the city was. I turned to thank him for his company and his information. He held out a small package to me, “Here. I want you to have this.”

“Oh, no. I couldn’t possibly accept such an extravagant gift.” I said, mostly out of reflexive politeness. I had no idea what was in the box, or how extravagant it might have been. It could have been his toenail clippings, although the box felt a bit heavy for that. I wonder how many toenail clippings there would have had to have been in there to make the box this heavy. Hyur nails probably weigh less than Auri nails, but it’s not like I weighed them on a scale to compare the two.

“Think of it as payment for putting up with my prattle.” the man said. He looked at my unconvinced face and added, “How’s about you go and make yourself the kind of storied personage that I can brag about having met. Then I’ll consider us square.”

I wanted to refuse, but I couldn’t think of a polite way to do so. He seemed so genuine about wanting me to have this box.

“Thank you very much.” I bowed to the man. He really was very kind. I was lucky to make such kind friends already. I glanced around for Khloe, who was standing impatiently near the city gates for me. I bid Brendt farewell and hurried over to meet her.


	2. Chapter 2

My first steps into the city of Ul’dah were the most exciting steps I had ever taken. We walked straight into the marketplace. It was so full of color and life. Hundreds, or maybe a thousand people, were all crammed into the street. Merchants were hawking their wares loudly, while people walked together and laughed. The collective voices spiraled into a beautiful cacophony. Perhaps it was for fear of angering the occupying soldiers, but marketplaces back home were always far more subdued. 

There was a stall with funny smelling spices, and one with brightly colored fabrics. I saw one with weapons, and an apothecary whose stall had shelves lined in a rainbow of potions. There was a man with a sparkling display of shining jewels, and one who was selling fresh and dried meats. I especially wanted to stop and try the jerky he was loudly advertising, but Khloe was frowning at me.

“Keep close. We still need to get to the guild.” Khloe said. She was right. There would be plenty of time to look at everything once we were registered. Even so, I wanted to stop and look at all of the fancy people and check out the cool stalls. Especially that jerky! While we were walking, I spotted a large board covered in paper. I stopped for barely a moment to look at it. When I turned back, Khloe was gone. Had she disappeared into the crowd? 

I tried to find her, bouncing up onto my toes to try and catch a glimpse of her over the shoulders of the midlanders and roegadyn that blocked my view. Somebody barked at me to get out of the street. I scrambled off to the side, and out of everyone's’ way. I just knew that I could spot her if I could get to higher ground, but somehow I don’t think that the people here would like it if I climbed onto their stalls. 

“Oy, Adventurer!” Someone shouted. I looked around and saw a midlander in a dark shirt and sunglasses leaning against a wall, “Yes, you. Come here.”

I didn’t hesitate. He seemed nice enough, and anyone who could help me out of the jam I was in would be a welcome sight. I greeted him with a polite bow, “Hello, sir.”

“Tis plain for anyone with eyes to see that you don’t know your way around here.” He smirked at me. I suppose I really was that obvious.

“Um… I was with my friend, but we got separated. She’s a miquo’te with white hair and is probably scowling? Have you seen anyone like that?” I asked him. 

“Can’t say that I have.” the man replied. I wilted a little. How was I going to get to the adventurer’s guild without her help? I suppose I could try it on my own, but I could already tell that this place was a giant maze. As if sensing my thoughts the man said, “If I let you go wonderin' off down the nearest dark alley, you're certain to get mugged or worse, an' I don't want that on my conscience. So before you do anythin' else, you'll want to head over to the Quicksand, an' speak with Momodi. She's the master of the Advenurers' Guild, an' can set you on the right path.”

“Please.” I said. That would be most helpful. Khloe might even be there waiting for me! Would she be angry that I took so long, or maybe she would laugh? Not that I had ever heard her laugh before. She was always so serious. Perhaps one of these days I would be able to make her laugh or smile. But then, perhaps not. 

The man pointed me towards a gate in the distance. Once I got through that gate, I was to go up the stairs near the aetheryte, and then I would find the guild master inside. Apparently I would need to pay him for any more information. It seemed that city people required payment for everything, even something as simple as getting directions. I made a mental note of this new information, it would probably be important to remember while I got myself established as a proper adventurer in this city. I thanked the man for his time and made my way through the crowd to the archway in question. 

Once free of the marketplace, I found a quiet spot on the side of the street to sit down. The street outside the guild was nowhere near as busy as the market, for which I was grateful. As fun as seeing all of those people in one place was, it was also exhausting. My horns ached from all of the noise they had been subjected to. 

I scanned the street for any sign of Khloe. Once I was satisfied that she had probably gone on ahead, I made my way up the stairs that the man from before had mentioned. Now that I thought about it, I never had asked his name. Then again, he probably would have charged me for it. Perhaps this way was for the best.

The inside of the guild was dark, at least compared to the brilliant reflection of the sun off of the white stone buildings outside. I felt half-blind as I stumbled into the room that was lit by nought by enchanted crystals. 

“There you are!” Khloe snarled at me before my eyes had even finished adjusting. “I can’t take my eyes off you for a second. Where did you get off to?”

“Sorry.” I apologized meekly. Khloe seemed so angry with me. It wasn’t really my fault. She was the one who had walked too fast. But telling her so seemed like a bad idea. 

She took a moment to stop and clean her glasses, as if too annoyed to even look at me properly. Now that my eyes had begun to adjust, I realized what sort of place this was. It was a tavern! I had often heard adventure stories that had started out with a journey to a tavern, but I didn’t really believe that adventures started in them. I had always thought that was just a lazy way to introduce the main plot of the story in bad novels, but it seemed there was a kernel of truth to it after all. 

“Well, whatever. Come on, let’s get you introduced to the guild master.” Khloe grumbled. She walked off towards a counter. Dawdling to look at the neatly potted plants in the room would probably only serve to annoy her further, so I hurried after her.

“And who might you be?” A lalafell woman greeted me from behind the counter. 

It was a little odd for me to see so many in one place. We don’t have many lalafell in my home village. I don’t really know what the proper way to address them is. Looking down on them feels rude, but I also feel like getting at their eye level would be condescending. I would find it extremely condescending if some tall person leaned down so that they could talk to me. 

Ul’dah really was amazing. There were so many different kinds of people all living together. Well, excepting beast tribes, I suppose. They weren’t allowed in the city, even though I still didn’t really understand why. Maybe I should have asked Brendt while he was explaining the city to me. That probably would have been smart.

“Asami.” Khloe hissed out of the corner of her mouth at me. 

“O-oh! Sorry…” I apologized quickly. 

“This is the girl I was telling you about.” Khloe said.

“That friend of yours who wants to be an adventurer?” the woman behind the counter asked. That man from before said that I wanted to talk to someone named Momodi. Was this her?

“I didn’t say  _ friend _ .” Khloe mumbled. 

The woman I assumed was Momodi giggled. She seemed pretty used to Khloe as well. Maybe they were friends too? 

Khloe did mention that she used to live around here. She refused to meet anyone’s eye, instead becoming very interested in the bottles behind the lalafell woman. Poor Khloe was always so bashful. I know she’s the type of person who has trouble expressing her feelings, but it would be nice to hear what she thought without qualifiers or layers of sarcasm every once in a while.

“Well, if you’re lookin’ to become an adventurer you came to the right place.” the woman turned her attention back to me, “Name’s Momodi, and I own this fine establishment, if it please you.”

I wasn’t sure how much say I had in her profession. Whether it pleased me or not, this was her store. But that was irrelevant. She seemed like a nice lady. I didn’t know much about her or her tavern, but it looked like she was doing a good job running the place. 

I watched the woman take a breath. It looked like she was gearing up for some sort of speech. Perhaps that was also part of her job? 

“I also manage the Adventurer’s Guild here in Ul’dah. So you might say that lookin' after green adventurers like yourself is my vocation. And lucky for you that it is. Without someone like me to steer you right, you'd soon find yourself out in the middle of nowhere, caught up in business you don't understand.

“Like our conflict with the Amalj'aa, for example. They've been plaguin' the sultanate for nigh on, oooh... forever now. Then there's the Garlean Empire. None can say for sure what they're plottin' these days, only that they are.” 

“So they’re a problem here too.” I mumbled, more to myself than to anyone in the room. 

I was more than aware of the Garlean Empire, especially their cruelty. My people had been living under their thumb since before I was born. I had hoped that I would find some reprieve from those ironclad monsters, but it seemed that the arm of the Empire stretched all the way around the world. 

My lord was the head of the resistance. He fought in the hopes that we could someday free our lands from their tyranny, so that our children could know peace. But how could we ever hope to free ourselves from such an overwhelming opponent? It seemed impossible.

“Aye, the people drink and make merry... but underneath it all, there's worry. Worry and a lingerin' feelin' of loss.” Momodi continued. She explained to me what had happened five years ago. The Calamity.

Even on my distant shores we had heard of it, but I didn’t know too many details. Apparently that was because even people who were there didn’t really know what had happened. 

The few details that everyone seemed to agree upon was that lesser moon that had descended upon the world was actually some sort of prison for a terrible monster. It broke free and all but destroyed the land. But thanks to the efforts of a group of heroes that had come to be called the Warriors of Light, the beast was defeated and the realm saved.

“Now, nobody is expectin’ you to be the next Warrior of Light. All I ask is that you lend a helpin' hand, and try to leave Ul'dah in a better state than you found her. If you can promise that, I'd be happy to let you join the guild.” The woman seemed to have finally finished her speech.

I wasn’t sure I ever could be as amazing as the heroes who helped save the entire realm, or even if I could do anything to help out around Ul’dah. I might not be cut out for this sort of work, but I’ll never know unless I try. It’s like my lord always told me. I don’t have to be perfect; I just have to give it my all. 

I won’t let him down.

“I’ll do my best.” I answered. Momodi flashed me an approving grin. 

“All right, then! A promise is a promise, now! I'm countin on your help to put the past behind us. We need people workin' and spendin' and bickerin' like the old days! And a happy and prosperous Ul'dah means more business for the Quicksand, too!” She cheered for the future of her beloved city with such enthusiasm that I couldn’t help but want to do everything I could to support her. 

Momodi reached under the table and pulled out a thick book. She opened it and I saw a list of names. The names of all the people who came before me. I wondered if any of the names were those Warriors of Light that Momodi had talked about. Not that either of us would have any way of knowing, if her story about not being able to remember them was true. 

I wonder what happened to them. Were they sad that everyone had forgotten them? All of their friends and the people they met? It must have felt as if it never happened. Or maybe they were just glad that they helped stop the Calamity before all of Eorzea burned down. Maybe that was enough for them.

“Anyroad, let’s make this official. Go ahead and write your name in the register.” Momodi prompted me. I took up the pen and formed the letters as carefully as I could. I would hate to have to redo it because I got excited and wrote it sloppily. I’m not even sure what the procedure would be for fixing such a mistake. 

“Asami Kurushiki.” Momodi read my name. She smiled approvingly, “What a charmin’ name! Rolls right off the tongue, that does.”

Does it? I hadn’t really thought about the way my name feels when it’s said aloud. I guess I like the way it feels when I say Asami, now that I’m thinking about it. The word feels very round. Kurushiki less so. It feels more jagged and pointy. I don’t like it.

“Please, sir, be merciful! Twelve as my witness, I swear to you, I'll bring you your money!” Somebody shouted. I turned to see a man cowering on the floor before some thugs. Before I could even think to go intervene, Khloe had grabbed my arm.

“It’s not our business.” she hissed at me. 

“But…” I couldn’t come up with any argument that I knew would sway her from the position. Even so, I had to try, “But we could help him.”

“And then what? Stopping those guys today doesn’t solve the problem. He’ll still owe them money, and by the looks of him he’ll still have a gambling problem. All that you would do here is get yourself on the bad side of some powerful men.” Khloe lectured me with a practiced patience in her voice. 

She spoke true, but even so I hated this. I had had my fill of tyranny; I had my fill of the look of terror in that stranger’s eyes. 

Of people with more money and power using those without for their own amusement. Bowing and scraping until our knees bleed so as not to offend the all powerful overlords. If we make ourselves small enough, they may not deign to crush us like the bugs they think we are. Anything for the chance to live another day. 

How could we just stand here and let this happen?

I heard things were different here!

“You can’t save a man from himself, Asami.” Khloe said, her voice softer this time. It was a far cry from the brisk way she usually spoke. She didn’t like it any more than I did.

“Well, ain't that a sorry sight. Nor an uncommon one, if I'm honest. Don't worry, though- If you work hard, I doubt you'll end up like him.” Perhaps she was simply too used to this sort of thing as well, or perhaps she just didn’t care. It was hard to say.

“Just the same, if you ever need a bit of advice about one thing or another, pay me a visit. Just don't go botherin' me every time you stub your bloody toe, all right? 'Course, I do enjoy hearin' a lady muse on the many manhoods of her acquaintance from time to time…” she trailed off. Somehow I doubted I would end up facing many troubles with manhoods of my acquaintance. I was here on business. I had to stay focused on my mission. Seeing the world, along with some other chores. Who had time to muse on manhood troubles when there was so much world to see?

“Now, Khloe. Why don’t you show Asami here around our fair city? Show her where the Aetheryte Plaza is and maybe help her find the Pugilist’s Guild? Assuming those hora aren’t just for show?” Momodi prompted. Khloe elbowed me in the ribs, gesturing to the lalafell behind the counter with a pointed look.

“O-oh… Thank you for all of your help.” I sputtered quickly.

Khloe nodded and turned to leave. I followed after her quickly. It wouldn’t do to lose sight of her again.

“One more thing you two.” Momodi said, causing Khloe to stop in her tracks. “I know you don’t need remindin’, Khloe, but Asami. You aren’t to take any jobs that will take you outside the city until you get the go-ahead from your guild master. However, feel free to help anyone you come across if it won’t take you outside the city gates.”

“Yes, ma’am.” I said. I wonder how long it will be before I’m allowed to do things outside the city gates? Hopefully not too long. Ul’dah is big and magnificent, but I want to look around the desert more too! And the bazaar. There was jerky there that needs tasting.

I trotted after Khloe once we were certain Momodi had said her peace. It was nice of her to show me around like this. I know she has things that she wants to be doing. I made a promise to myself to repay her for all of her kindness as soon as I could. Once I earn a little money I can buy her something cool. I wonder if she likes jerky?

“Our first stop is going to be the aetheryte. It’s important to attune to every aetheryte you find. Especially ones in the cities. It’ll give you a safe place to retreat to if you get in over your head out in the field.” Khloe explained as she took me down the shining streets. It was beautiful, but I felt like the sun was bearing down on me from all angles. People with fair skin must have a terrible time in this city. 

I wonder if my skin was fair enough for that to be a problem? It is pretty pale. Khloe’s so lucky. She has such dark skin. She must never have to worry about things like this. It must be nice.

We stepped out of the blazing sun into a smaller darker area. The only light seemed to come from an enormous glowing crystal in the center. We had an aetheryte back home that I saw once. It looked completely different from this one. Most notably, that one back home was broken. This one was beautiful and hovered in the center of the room as if by magick. 

It probably was magick.

“Go on.” Khloe prompted. I stepped up to the crystal and held my hand out. I could feel some part of myself- not my blood, but something like it- flow out of me and into the crystal. Some of the crystal returned to me. It kind of tickled.

As I finished a lalafell man approached me. He looked to be dressed in some sort of uniform, but not that of the Brass Blades. I wonder what sort of organization he belongs to?

“Hail, adventurer! Might you have come at the behest of Miss Momodi of the Quicksand?” he asked.

“Yes.” I replied. He seemed nice.

“Excellent. Which brings me to the matter of the attunement fee- that will be one hundred thousand gil, if you please, madam.” He said, holding his hand out expectantly. 

I froze. I didn’t have that kind of money! Nobody told me there was going to be a fee. Oh no, was this some sort of common sense thing that everybody in Eorzea knew so they didn’t see any reason to warn me about it because they all thought I already knew? What was I going to do?

“I… is there any way I can set up some sort of… payment plan?” I asked, my voice smaller than the lalafell before me. He burst into laughter. I knew it. My adventure was going to end before it began, all because I had no money. Or maybe they would let me work it off? I could do that too! I’m good at… not a whole lot, but I’m passable at many things!

“Apologies, but I do so relish the opportunity to make that jest. The look on your face was absolutely priceless! Ah, but the fact that you were so easily deceived suggests to me that you are unfamiliar with the use of aetherytes. Allow me to explain.” the lalafell began to explain the truth of the matter to me once he had stopped howling with laughter. I noticed Khloe smirking out of the corner of my eye as well.

I changed my mind. I’m not sharing any of my jerky with her.

I thanked the man for his time and shuffled off to my next destination. That was actually so embarrassing. I know he was making a jest in good fun, but still. I hope nobody else tries to play a trick on me like that. I don’t know how much more of those little jests my heart can take.

“You need to be more wary of strangers. You’ll get taken advantage of if you’re not more careful.” Khloe scolded me. I frowned at her before looking away. Over by some sort of decorative plants in the middle of the street I spotted the man who had helped me earlier.

“Oh! That guy over there.” I said, pointing to the man.

“Wymond? What about him?” Khloe asked. So she knew him? I almost asked but she answered before I had the chance.

“He’s an information broker. I’ve seen him dealing with people in the Thaumaturge’s Guild sometimes.” she explained.

“Oh. He helped me find my way to the Quicksand after we got seperated. I wanted to let him know that I made it. Would that be okay?” I asked. Khloe shrugged. She didn’t seem to care one way or another.

“That’s fine, but be careful around him. He’s only your friend if you have the coin for it. You can’t trust guys like that.” she warned. I nodded. Somehow, I felt that was going to be something of a theme while I was here in Ul’dah. Still, it didn’t hurt to be friendly!

I smiled and waved to him.

“Ah. Adventurer. I see you found your friend.” Wymond greeted me as I approached, “So, how're you takin' to Ul'dah, Asami? Make any new friends in high places yet?”

“In the past bell?” I asked. That didn’t seem very likely. Unless Mistress Momodi counted. She seemed nice enough! Or Khloe. Khloe was my friend. Sometimes.

“Hah! Well, when you have the sultana's ear one day, I hope you won't have forgotten about ol' Wymond!” he laughed.

I don’t want the sultana’s ear. Why would I even take it? Where would I keep it? On some sort of ear necklace? How barbaric!

“As long as you're here, mayhap you can do me a favor an' take this missive to Josias at the Platinum Mirage.” Wymond said, pulling a sealed scroll out of his pocket. He handed it to me. “It's just over yonder, an' the man'll even give you some gil for your trouble. If only all work in the city was this easy, eh?”

The Platinum Mirage was where the Pugilist’s Guild was, wasn’t it? I was already heading that way! This was a good sign, I could feel it. Being an adventurer was going to go really well for me!

I thanked Wymond again and headed off in the direction he had pointed. It wasn’t until I had caught back up with Khloe that I realized something odd.

“He called me by my name.” I told her. 

“And?” She asked, quirking an eyebrow.

“I never told him my name.” I informed her. How had he learned it? 

“He’s an information broker. Learning things like that is child’s play for him.” Khloe waved off my concerns. 

She was probably right. He was just doing his job. Although, why he thought my name would be important to know was beyond me. Maybe he made a point of learning the names of all the adventurers in the city, so he knew where to send people who needed help! He acted a little distant, but maybe he was actually really nice.

“Anyway. This is where I leave you.” Khloe said as we reached the doorway of the Platinum Mirage.

I guess she couldn’t be there to hold my hand the entire time…

“I’m going to be at the Thaumaterge’s Guild if you need me. Keep following the road to the end of it. There’ll be stairs. Go up there, and ask for me at the desk.” Khloe informed me. 

I nodded. That was good. If I got really stuck, I could just find her at her guild, or ask Momodi. It was a little intimidating to go at it on my own, but knowing there were people I could go to made it a lot easier. I was going to be okay.

“Be good.” Khloe said, before taking off on her own adventure. We were going to meet again. The city was only so big, after all. Besides, I needed to focus on the task at hand.

Taking a deep breath, I stepped through the doors. 

The first thing I noticed was the stench. It was if a thousand malboros had sweat to death in one room. I tried not to breathe too deeply as I made my way to the counter. 

“Do you have business with the Platinum Mirage this morning?” I bored looking hyur man asked from behind the counter. I nodded and handed him the scroll Wymond had given me.

“A missive from Wymond? Alright then, let's have a look.” The man took the missive and dropped a small pouch of gil in my hand. He didn’t look at me as he opened it and read the contents. Whatever it said didn’t seem to phase him much. He seemed to find it all rather dull. I wonder what Wymond wanted to tell him?

“Is there anything else?” the man asked when he noticed I was still standing there. His disinterested gaze was murder on my poor nerves. Like I was an annoying fly that was just too far to be worth the effort of swatting. I gathered as much courage as I could. 

“I… I would like to join your guild!” I almost shouted over my nerves. The man sighed and jerked his thumb to the woman next to him.

“Gagaruna, this one’s for you.” he said. I shuffled awkwardly over to the woman he wanted me to speak to.

“Welcome! I see you already walk the path of the pugalist. Yet your journey has only just begun. It is customary for me to explain the origins of our guild to all prospective members.” the woman said with a friendly smile. I nodded and listened to her describe the origins of their art.

It all started on the blood sands. A heroic young pugilist fought heavily armored gladiators and knights all with naught but her fists. Enough people came to train under her that the guild was formed. It was an amazing story.

“Now then.” she finally finished her tale, “Should you wish to proceed with enrollment, you must first obtain the guildmaster's approval.”

She pointed to a wizened old man who was overseeing the training down in the pit. Looking at him now, it was almost difficult to imagine that he was once one of the fiercest fighters in all of Eorzea. The man who had tales of his strength and fighting spirit spread all the way across the sea to Othard. The man who was going to train me to become more than just another clumsy maid.

Hammon Holyfist.

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> I hope you all had as much fun reading this as I did writing it. I know nothing is happening in these early chapters, and I can't really help that. It's the nature of the beast, unfortunately. We'll be past the boring stuff soon enough. I actually forget if the NPC who tells you about aetherytes is a Blade or if he's a Flame. I'm just going to say he's a Flame. It doesn't matter. I doubt he'll ever come up again.
> 
> Now for a little house keeping. I'm probably not going to update this for a long while. My plan is to write up until the end of what I'm calling the Ul'dah arc, and then post chapters either weekly or twice a week while I work on the next part of the story. So, you all might not see me for a while, but once you do you'll be seeing me much more often. Until then.


	3. Chapter 3

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> Asami has her first day of training under the mighty Holyfist.

I approached the man that I had come all this way to meet, but somehow I felt as though my words had failed me. Not that I was especially good at words before, but this seemed harder somehow. How should I greet someone like this? Eorzean customs were so different from what I was used to. I wished Khloe had stayed with me to help me through this.

But I can’t hide behind Khloe and the others forever. If I’m going to become strong, I’m going to have to learn to stand on my own two feet. That means starting a conversation with the strongest pugilist in Eorzea. All on my own.

Hamon Holyfist didn’t spare me a glance. Sensing my presence was enough. “Heh… Bout time you got your sorry arse back here. Well? What did the dancer have to say about my… proposition?”

“Anoー I think you might be mistaken?” I floated the possibility past him quietly. I wasn’t a dancer, and didn’t know any in this land. Unless Khloe was a dancer? But she had never mentioned it. She didn’t seem especially athletic, if I was being honest.

“Eh?! Y-you're not my errand boy! There is no dancer- there never was! I'm not doing anything indecent, I swear to the gods!” the famous pugilist sputtered excuses and denials too quickly for me to keep up.

“Um… I see.” I said, even though I didn’t. Eorzea was such a confusing place sometimes. I gestured vaguely to the fighting pit below us, “I… came to enroll… in the guild.”

“What? You're here to enroll? Ohoho, well, why didn't you say so sooner? In my capacity of guildmaster, I would be glad to give you a primer on the art of hand-to-hand combat!” the master himself said before demonstrating his prowess. He was a little slower than the samurai and shinobi I had observed back in Doma, but still he was much faster than I was. Perhaps he was holding back so I could better understand his movements? Even my untrained eye could tell that each strike was deliberate and had purpose behind it. I could learn a lot from this man.

While he demonstrated his technique he continued his lecture, “Doubtless you already know this, but we pugilists fight with our fists and feet. While these don't deal as much damage as a blade, it hardly matters when you can land several blows for each swing of the sword. What we lack in destructive force, we more than make up for in speed and cunning. Under my guidance, not only will you master striking techniques, you'll also learn to string them together to deliver an endless flurry of blows! Only through such fierce combinations can a pugilist realize his potential!”

He let forth a fearsome battle cry, and demonstrated what he meant. Each blow flowed easily into the next. I was beginning to understand how this fighting style was different from those that I had seen at home. It was closer to a shinobi’s way of fighting than a samurai’s. I wonder if it’s really okay for me to learn a style like that?

The master’s demonstration ended with him breathing heavily. I hope he didn’t overexert himself for my sake. He seemed to be getting on in the years. Perhaps it would be better for him to leave training new recruits to the more capable students? Surely there were more important matters that the guild master had to handle, such as dancers? 

The dancer must be for coming up with some sort of amazing new technique! No wonder he wanted to keep it so secret for now! Just the sort of innovation I would expect of the famous Holyfist!

“Crikey, I'm spent from all this talking. You ought to speak more, lass- it'd give me a chance to catch my breath.” Master Hamon chided me. 

“My apologies.” I apologized with a polite bow. 

“Now, where was I? Ah, right, joining the guild. Before you do so, I must warn you that the path of the pugilist is long and arduous. Do you believe you've got what it takes to go the distance? Be honest with yourself, now!” he looked at me appraisingly.

“I crossed the ocean to train under you, sir. I will become a pugilist worthy of this guild.” I answered.

“Yes, you have fighting spirit- I can see it in your eyes. I see no reason to deny you a place in these halls. Welcome to the guild, lass.” He nodded at me. I guess he approved of my answer. 

The master waved a lalafell in green armor over. She looked friendly enough, but she walked with a sort of confidence that was a little intimidating. She could wipe the floor with just about anyone in this room, and she knew it. Perhaps one day I could be as strong as she is! If I keep working at it, I’m sure it will happen.

“Chuchuto, this is our newest member… er.” Hamon faltered. Oh! I had forgotten to introduce myself, hadn’t I? 

“Ah… I’m sorry, sir. My name’s Asami.” I bowed politely to Chuchuto.

“Right. This is our newest member, Asami. I want you to oversee her training for the time being.” Master Hamon said. 

A demonstration was all well and good, but I was really looking forward to practical lessons. The sooner I proved myself capable, the sooner I would be able to take jobs out in the field. And there, I would be able to get even more experience as a fighter. 

“Right. Come on this way, and let’s see what you’ve got.” Chuchuto said, ushering me to some training dummies they had set up in the corner. I hoped that I would be able to do this. I had seen the way Master Hamon did it. Hopefully I could replicate it well enough so as not to embarrass myself. I drew my Hora, and Chuchuto immediately stopped me.

“No, no. Those won’t do.” She said, looking over my equipment. 

“Oh…” I said, “Would it be better for me to do it bare-handed?” I asked quietly. She shook her head and pulled me over to a box of spare equipment in the back. It took some time, but she helped me find a matching pair that fit. 

“Using the wrong sized hora, especially mismatched ones like that, is very bad for your form. You’ll be more likely to hurt yourself than your opponent equipped like that. You can borrow from this box while you’re training here, but be sure to buy a proper pair once you’re ready to fight in earnest.” Chuchuto explained to me. I nodded understanding. It was good that they had basic equipment I could borrow until I earned enough to buy a proper pair.

Once I was properly outfitted, she took me back to the training dummy. She carefully explained her motions as she showed me the most basic short combination, what they called a bootstrap combo.

Chuchuto made me repeat the motion dozens of times before she was satisfied. Then she taught me another strange move. She explained the difference between the three main stances, and how it was better to use certain moves in certain stances. Some moves, like the bootstrap combo or a straight punch that she called a True Strike were better performed from behind, but certian other moves were better if used from the flank. 

I didn’t realize that being a pugilist meant keeping track of so many things. I had thought it was mostly about punching things, but there seemed to be a lot of strategy to it as well. This was a lot to keep track of, but Chuchuto promised that it wasn’t as difficult as she made it sound.

She called out the moves, sometimes alternating the two, sometimes doubling up on the bootstrap combo. It was true, the lesson made more sense when I was actually doing it. After what felt like bells, Chuchuto finally called for me to stop.

My arms ached, and I felt like I had sweat more in one bell than I had in my entire life. But it was satisfying just the same way practicing the moves I had observed when nobody was looking had been satisfying back home. 

“Come on. Go get a drink before you dry out.” Chuchuto said, gesturing to a jug of water they kept for the occasion. I nodded and fetched a glass for her as well. She had been working harder than I had, constantly watching and correcting my amateur mistakes. 

“You’ve got a strange way of moving.” she observed as I returned, “Did you study any other fighting styles before?”

“Ah… a little. My... the man who raised me taught me some swordplay to help me protect myself.” I explained. As much as I wished I could, I had no right to call him father. Especially not after I had run half the world away. That night he had caught me practicing on my own, he had all but insisted he teach me properly. He had always treated me better than I deserved. 

“Well, that would explain it then.” Chuchuto said, “But why come to study the way of the pugilist? Not that I’m complainin’ mind. It’s nice to have another lass around here.”

“Oh… Back home… I lost a fight because I was disarmed.” I explained. Not that that was the only reason. I had been outmatched from the beginning. Losing the sword had simply given me a convenient excuse for giving up. 

I had thought I would be satisfied with that result. I had done all I could, and still I lost. The daughter of a lowly whore could never fit to be his student. Knowing that should have given me peace, and allowed me to dedicate myself to a more realistic pursuit.

But instead of feeling free, I felt the loss gnaw at me. If I had been stronger… If I had known what to do when my weapon was taken from me… If I had been a real warrior, instead of a servant girl playing with a sword...

“But… a pugilist can’t be disarmed like that, because their arms are their arms.” I continued. My logic was sound.

“That’s one way of lookin’ at it.” Chuchuto laughed. She seemed to be having a good time at least. We chatted for a while longer while we drank. The cold water felt nice after working so hard in this heat, but I really wanted to get back at it. 

“Now, I think you might be ready for your next lesson. Keep practicing your bootstraps while I get it set up.” Chuchuto bade me to continue while she ran off to talk to the master. Wow. A second lesson in one day? Things move so much faster in Eorzea. 

I redoubled my efforts to perfect the bootstrap combo that Chuchuto had taught me. It became easier the longer I practiced. I’m not sure how many times I repeated the motions before Chuchuto returned.

“Go talk to Master Hamon. He’s got your next task all ready for you.” Chuchuto instructed.

“Ah… thank you for all your help.” I thanked her before wandering over to see what Master Hamon wanted. 

“Asami! Just the lass I was hoping to see. Chuchuto says you’ve been improving by leaps and bounds.” He said as I approached.

“Oh… I’ve been doing my best to keep up.” I said. It was true, I had barely been able to keep up with Chuchuto’s instructions. 

“Well, anyroad. I have a task for you.” Hamon said, holding up a small brown sack. He dangled it from the draw-string that glittered with something shiny. As if the rope had been weaved with gold, or something of a similar shade. Judging by the way it jingled, it sounded to be a sack of gil? Was I going to fetch a dancer after all? 

Master Hamon explained, “I’ve stashed five of these around Ul’dah. I want you to go and fetch them for me.”

“Yes sir.” I said, uncertain as to the point of this particular exercise. Perhaps it had something to do with being observant and noticing weak points in an enemy’s armor?

“Now, that's my money lying out there, so I want you to go about it like there's an Amalj'aa war band on your heels. In other words, I want you to sprint.” He said, pointing to the door as he said so.

“Yes, sir!” I said, before rushing out. He didn’t give me many clues as to where he had hidden the bags, but I wouldn’t return until I had found all five. The first one was easy. I spotted the shiny string hiding in a planter outside the guild. That wasn’t so hard. Now I just needed to find the others. 

I knew that I couldn’t sprint indefinitely, and I definitely couldn’t look too carefully while running at full tilt. I tried to keep it to a brisk jog, only putting on a burst of speed once I spotted some good hiding places. The sacks were squirreled away in such odd places. One was near the dancers that the master was so preoccupied with. One was hidden under a chair in the Quicksand. 

It took me time, but I eventually managed to return to the guild with all five sacks in hand. I presented my prize to the master proudly. 

“Five hundred gil? That’s good for a week of… Good work, Asami.” Master Hamon said. 

He was a strange man, but I was beginning to understand the way his lessons worked. They seemed like irrelevant nonsense at first, but they were all designed to help develop my eye and endurance as a pugilist. It really was a clever training tactic! No wonder he was such a respected guild master.

“Now that you’re all warmed up, Chuchuto’s going to show you one final move for the day.” Master Hamon congratulated me and sent me back to talk to Chuchuto. I wondered what kind of move I would be learning this time. Three new moves in one day! This was such an exciting day.

“This move is what we call a Snap Punch. It’s best executed from the flank from coeurl form.” Chuchuto explained as she demonstrated the move for me. Now that I understood it better, I remembered the demonstration Master Hamon had done earlier. He had shown me all of these moves, but Chuchuto explained them much more clearly. Perhaps this was another part of his odd style of teaching?

“Now, it’s going to be the same drill as before, but mind your positioning this time. And don’t neglect your stances or footwork.” Chuchuto explained. I nodded and we began again. 

Bootstrap. True Strike. Snap Punch.

Somehow, as the moves repeated themselves, I felt as though my body was lighter. The strikes flowed together more easily. It could have been my imagination, but I felt as if I was even hitting a little harder as it went on. 

Chuchuto called for me to stop, and I took a seat on a nearby crate. I was pouring sweat and my arms felt heavy. This time Chuchuto got a glass of water for me.

“You did very well today.” she assured me. I didn’t feel as though I had done particularly well. Mostly I just felt tired and sweaty. “It’s getting late. There’s no point in doing anything more tonight.”

“I see.” I mumbled, to fill the space. Overdoing it would end up making it harder for me to progress. I knew that, but even so I wanted to keep working for the night. Even if I was already tired and my arms were sore. I know that true strength cannot be attained over night, but even so… I want it now. 

Chuchuto seemed to understand the petulant thoughts I was having. She smiled knowingly at me before asking, “So who is it? The person you’re working so hard for?”

What a difficult question. I need to become stronger for my own sake. That’s true enough, but was that really the right answer? I want to become strong enough to serve my lord. To become his shield and protect him from those who would do him harm. To become his sword and help him achieve his heart’s desires. After everything he has given me… I need to become strong enough to repay him. 

But that’s a lie in it’s own way as well, isn’t it? If that were enough for me, I could have stayed in Doma and continued training the way I had been. I would have learned enough to be useful eventually. But then, why was I even here? If becoming stronger would have been enough for me, why did I travel so far from home?

But maybe this was the only choice I had. I couldn’t really progress the way that things were going. No matter how much they cared for me or perhaps because they cared for me, the people back home coddled me. I would never grow into a warrior worthy of them if I stayed there. I had to broaden my horizons if I ever wanted to grow. I need to find a way to become strong enough to repay them for everything they’ve done for me.

I guess no matter what kind of spin I try to put on it, the truth won’t change. I selfishly decided to abandon my duties and my people. I wanted to travel to Eorzea, and so that’s what I did. Consequences be damned.

“Oh. Maybe that question was a little too personal.” Chuchuto said by way of apology. I shrugged. 

“Well, let’s keep striving for the mastery of our art together.” Chuchuto said, “To that end. Eat a good dinner tonight, and get a good night’s rest. I’ll expect you here bright and early tomorrow.”

“Yes ma’am.” I answered. I returned my borrowed hora, and headed out.

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> This chapter and the next chapter were originally going to be the same chapter. I was a little worried that it was getting to be a little too long. If you all would like to see longer chapters be sure to let me know.


End file.

**Author's Note:**

> Takes place shortly after 4.2

_Ugly._  

How Alisaie hated that word. 

She'd heard it said often enough. It was slurred into drinks in darkened taverns. It was whispered amongst friends at the expense of a hapless stranger walking by. Even at the vaunted Studium the word was tossed about, murmured behind books in dark corners of the library.

Alisaie firmly believed that the only true ugliness laid in the actions of the people who uttered such words to harm others. Yet as she looked at her reflection and saw the jagged scar that cut across her skin, the word seared into her mind like a hot brand. She frowned at herself in the mirror, feeling silly for even entertaining such thoughts. 

It was likely that her choice of attire was to blame. Well, she hadn't had much _choice_ in that matter, really. When Tataru hastily invited her and Poppy to spend some time at Kugane's famous onsen, she'd been caught off guard.

 _“You two look stressed!”_ their Lalafellin friend had exclaimed after Alphinaud and Hancock excused themselves from the solar of the Ruby Bazaar. _“Why don’t we have a girl’s night at the Bokairo Inn?”_

Perhaps she’d noticed Alisaie’s tense frown or how haggard Poppy looked. Their condition made sense given the odd turn of their recent Doman outing and no detail ever went unnoticed beneath Tataru’s all-seeing gaze. While Poppy accepted the invitation with little hesitation, Alisaie was a bit less enthusiastic. 

 _“I’ve nothing to wear for such an occasion,”_  she had argued in vain, knowing her protests were futile.

 _“I have just the thing for you!”_ was Tataru’s cheerfully stubborn reply, because of course she did, how could she not. She’d likely spent moons collecting fabrics from Kugane’s markets in preparation for a chance to create various outfits for the Scions as she so loved to do.

Alisaie couldn't say no to Tataru. Not after she’d so lovingly crafted her new garments. And so there she stood, moping in her inn room before the mirror and staring at the reflection of a two piece bathing suit that bared that horrid scar for the whole world to see. Her inner turmoil was interrupted after a moment when a few quick knocks came from the other side of the door.

“It’s me,” a muffled though familiar voice spoke. 

The sudden interruption gave Alisaie a start. She reached for the robe that was draped across the back of a nearby chair and hastily threw it on before answering, “Come in.”

The door opened with a click and in came Poppy, who wore a robe similar to Alisaie’s and was busy rubbing a towel against her hair. It seemed she’d already rinsed at the showers and decided to stop by before heading to the onsen.

“Are you coming? The hot springs’ll be cold at this rate,” she quipped teasingly as she flung the towel over her shoulder. When she finally looked at Alisaie, her face softened and she tilted her head to the side. “Something wrong?”

Alisaie was confused for a moment before she glanced at the mirror to see that the smirk she thought she wore looked more like a grimace. Seeing it only made her brow furrow more.

“Everything is fine,” she replied and forced a smile. “You can go ahead. I shall join you soon.”

Poppy didn’t look very convinced. She hesitated in the doorway for a moment before she closed the door behind her and made her way across the room. She paused before Alisaie, quirking a brow before placing her hands on her hips. Though she said nothing, her inquisitive gaze spoke volumes. 

Alisaie crossed her arms and sighed. She really didn’t want to bother Poppy with her silly self-consciousness. Not when they finally had a chance to relax. Yet as Poppy’s stare burned into her, she knew she had no choice.

“It’s the bathing suit,” she admitted quietly and looked off to the side, feeling a strange sort of shyness creep up her spine. 

"Does it not fit? I'm sure Tataru could fix it up somehow." When Alisaie glanced back at her, she saw Poppy flash her a reassuring smile.

"It's more about how it looks," Alisaie added, still avoiding directly naming her discomfort.

Poppy frowned and tilted her head to the side as if confused. "Can I see?" 

Alisaie inhaled a sharp breath and stiffened, feeling a bit guilty. Not wanting to disparage Tataru's creation, she pushed through the discomfort and nodded, uncrossing her arms to untie the robe. She shifted beneath Poppy’s gaze uncomfortably and braced herself, feeling prickling thorns of embarrassment when the Warrior's eyes fell on her. 

"Oh," Poppy said quietly after a moment. Alisaie felt her heart drop, but the feeling was short-lived when a grin spread across the other woman's face. She quickly undid the knot of her robe to reveal a bathing suit of the same design. "We match!"

Alisaie was surprised. Poppy hadn't said a thing about the scar, if she'd even noticed it at all. She watched as the Warrior turned to the full length mirror with her hands on her hips and a grin still on her face.

"That sneaky Tataru. I bet she made matching sets for every Scion," she said almost accusingly as she spun around to admire herself at all angles. "You don't like it?"

Alisaie looked at her reflection and realized a grimace was slowly creeping across her face again. She looked away from herself to instead meet Poppy's gaze in the mirror. 

"I think it looks nice on you," Poppy said sweetly, sounding genuine.

The Warrior stepped closer to Alisaie and reached out to wrap an arm around her waist, pressing her against her side in a one-armed embrace. Alisaie relaxed a bit, feeling comforted by the gesture, and stared at their reflections for a long moment. The bathing suits were cut well and clearly made with care. The tops had small flowers embroidered onto them with gold and white thread while the bottoms were tied at the hip with a large bow. The only difference between them was that Poppy's set was pink while Alisaie's was red. She let a small smile slip. The design certainly was charming. However, she still found her eyes lingering on the large scar that tore across her chest from her shoulder to her hip.

She shifted her gaze to Poppy. The Warrior seemed relaxed as she leaned against her and Alisaie found she envied her partner's confidence. She never seemed to shrink beneath anyone's gaze despite any insecurity she felt. Her eyes flitted across Poppy's tan skin and settled on a scar that cut across her chest. She was breathless for a moment as she stared. It was uncannily similar to Alisaie's in placement and size. It seemed the bathing suits weren't the only way they matched. 

"Seeing it now, I think I do like it," Alisaie said quietly as a small smile tugged at her lips. She felt the rest of her discomfort dissipate when Poppy's face brightened with a smile in return. 

Before either of them could say more, there was a loud knock that startled them both. They turned as the door opened a crack and Tataru's head popped in. Her eyes lit up with a mischievous glint when she saw the two women. 

"If you two are done canoodling in here, we should get to the hot springs," Tataru said as a wide grin spread across her face. "The water will be cold at this rate!" 

Alisaie felt her face grow warm at the accusation. "I assure you that there is no _canoodling_ happening here-"

"That's exactly what I said when I came to get Ali!" Poppy ignored Alisaie's protests to reply to Tataru. When the Warrior glanced at her, a mischievous smile matching the Lalafell's quirked her lips. "Guess I got distracted. Can you blame me though? She's so pretty," she said in a cloyingly sweet tone as she pulled Alisaie closer and leaned in to make obnoxious kissy noises. 

Alisaie rolled her eyes and flicked her partner on the nose. "You're a menace," she huffed, trying to sound annoyed, but smirked when Poppy let out a soft yelp of surprise. "Both of you are." She stepped away from a pouting Poppy and moved towards Tataru, who eyed her bemusedly from behind the door. 

"Shall we, then? The hot springs might grow cold if we dally much longer, after all." 

\- x -

"And then Hancock said, 'Tataru, you can't talk to potential business partners like that'. So I told him, 'It was just a suggestion'!"

Poppy grinned into her cup as she leaned over the table. "What kind of suggestion was it?" she asked, stifling a giggle and edging Tataru on for more details.

"I suggested he go hawk his wares down by the piers! I've seen better quality wool come out of Camp Dragonhead for a third of the price." Tataru paused to sigh and take a long sip from her own cup. "Honestly, Hancock wouldn't know good wool if a karakul bit him in the rear!"

Poppy leaned back and let out a hearty laugh, bumping her knee against the low table they sat at and almost spilling her drink on herself in the process. Alisaie nearly snorted into her own drink, both from Tataru's words and Poppy's antics. She reached out to right the Warrior's cup before it fell into her lap. 

"I don't know why Lolorito keeps him around," Alisaie began wryly. "He really should just hire you. You're more charming than that snake of a man could ever hope to be." 

Another laugh escaped past Poppy's lips, though it sounded more like a hiss when she tried to stifle it. "You've got to aim higher than that. I'd say Lolorito's seat at the Syndicate is more your style," she said and flashed a grin across the table. 

Tataru grinned in return and chuckled as she swirled her drink around in her cup. "That's very flattering, but I don't think I'd ever want to leave the Scions," she said, sounding wistful. A grin slowly spread across her face again, though it looked far more menacing than before. "Alphinaud might drain our coffers on another sword if I'm not around!"

It was Alisaie's turn to laugh. "For all his talent in politics, he certainly has no sense when it comes to budgets," she said, unable to pass up an opportunity to joke at her dear brother's expense. 

Beside her, Poppy pouted. "I'm still nursing wounds from trying to fix that mess," she muttered. "Who knew an old tiger could hit that hard." 

Tataru and Alisaie shared another laugh, which Poppy reluctantly joined after another moment of pouting. When they quieted and an amiable silence fell over them, Tataru yawned into her palm. 

"Well, I think I'm going to turn in for the night," she said as she hopped up from her seat. She smiled at the pair and stretched before turning to the door. "You two stay the night here. You've earned a good night's rest in a decent bed for once! My treat, of course."

Alisaie smirked when she thought about their arrival and how Tataru had very loudly mentioned that the Warrior who freed both Doma and Ala Mhigo would like to stay at the inn, thus earning herself a very generous discount. Her treat indeed.

"Aw, no sleepover? There's plenty of space if you want to stay too." Poppy gestured to the spacious room around them and Alisaie nodded in agreement. They could easily house most of the core Scions given enough extra blankets, she realized bemusedly. 

"My bed at the Ruby Bazaar is calling me. I've got to get up early to do some paperwork anyway," Tataru explained. She smiled again and waved before making her way over to the door. "Rest well, you two!" 

Alisaie and Poppy said their good nights and were soon left alone in their lavish, much too large inn room with a spread of snacks and drinks still before them. Tataru really was very thoughtful. The Scions were lucky to have her, Alisaie realized. 

Beside her, Poppy didn't bother to stifle the yawn that tore through her, which ended in a laugh when it prompted Alisaie's own. "Seems like we're all equally exhausted," she said, eyes crinkling with a smile when Alisaie nodded in agreement through her yawn. "Mmm, didn't realize how much I needed that soak. Much less sore now," she added sleepily. 

Alisaie watched as Poppy rolled her shoulder and lifted her arms above her head to stretch. She followed the flicking of her tail and trailed up the curve of her spine to where her gaze settled on a gash that tore across her shoulder blade. Alisaie frowned. She hadn't noticed that before. The wound was starting to scar, but still looked fresh as the angry red of it stood out against the olive complexion of Poppy's skin. Without much thought, Alisaie reached out to touch it, almost as if to wipe the painful looking mark away. She felt wiry muscle tense and shift beneath her touch and soon Poppy was looking at her with a curious and surprised expression.

"You don't have to scowl," Poppy said quietly, sounding amused though she looked a bit sheepish. "It's mostly healed, so you don't have to worry." 

Alisaie released the breath she realized she'd been holding and met Poppy's gaze to smile. It seemed she'd formed a nasty habit of unconsciously making sour expressions. "From Byakko, I presume?" she asked as she looked back at the forming scar. The gash looked like it'd been left by a massive claw or perhaps even a tooth. Poppy had certainly managed to get herself tangled in some strange, dangerous affairs amidst the recent Doman shenanigans.

"Aye. Told you that old tiger hit hard," Poppy replied and flashed a toothy grin, seeming unfazed. "Not the worst, though. I've had nastier cuts than that. Like that one there." She shifted slightly so that her back was fully facing Alisaie. The camise she wore was cut low, leaving her skin mostly exposed. She reached behind her to gesture towards a large mark that spread across the center of her back. "That one's from Ifrit. I was still green and made the mistake of turning my back for too long. The bastard nearly gored me through." She chuckled as if recalling a fond memory and not the origin of a likely life threatening injury. 

Alisaie shook her head in disbelief and touched the faint scar that Poppy pointed at. It bloomed beneath her fingers almost in the shape of a flower with a divot in the center where a massive horn had punctured and likely burned the skin around it. She winced at the thought. She knew Poppy wore her blessing like a second skin that shielded her from the worst and could heal rapidly thanks to it, but it still must have hurt. Flesh was still flesh despite blessings and magic.

"And this one?" Alisaie asked as her gaze and fingers moved upward and found a strange cross shaped scar at the base of her neck.

Alisaie noticed how Poppy's ears flicked sideways. "Oh, that one's embarrassing," she replied. "I slipped on one of the ramparts at Camp Dragonhead and fell off. Could've snapped my neck, according to the chirurgeons. Didn't though!" 

Alisaie let out a strangled sound of amusement and disbelief. How Poppy toed the line between life and death with such cheerful recklessness was truly maddening. Such were the ways of her beloved, Alisaie reminded herself wearily. 

She listened as Poppy blithely pointed out her most notable wounds. When she looked at the rest of Poppy's back she felt like she was seeing it -- really _seeing_ it -- for the first time. Scars stretched across her skin and connected the freckles smattered across her back like tiny constellations that represented her dedication to Hydaelyn. Alisaie touched those too. She gently traced each line she saw with the pads of her fingertips in silent reverence. Her own scar ached across her chest, feeling almost heavy.

Alisaie leaned forward and sighed, resting her forehead against Poppy's shoulder. "I feel silly," she admitted quietly. 

"Why's that?" Poppy asked, sounding confused. 

"You wear your scars with pride. Yet I..." she trailed off for a moment to frown. "I was embarrassed."

Alisaie felt Poppy shift before her. She lifted her head from the other woman's shoulder to see her face light up with understanding.

"So it wasn't about the bathing suit earlier, was it?" When Alisaie nodded, Poppy turned to face her. She folded her legs neatly on the cushion they sat on and leaned forward a bit, resting her elbows on her knees. "Can I see it again?" she asked gently.

Alisaie obliged with far less hesitation that time. She undid the knot of her robe and shrugged it off so the fabric pooled around her elbows. Alisaie watched Poppy's face and realized she looked a bit sad. Perhaps she was reliving the day Alisaie had earned the wound. 

"Well, _I_ like it." A small smile quirked her lips and she tilted her head down to look at Alisaie from beneath her lashes. "Don't forget what Thancred said about battle scars and maidens," she said coyly, sounding flirtatious.

Alisaie rolled her eyes and suppressed the urge to groan. "What _was_ it that he said?" 

"'Naught worth repeating in polite company', remember?" Poppy grinned smugly and Alisaie had to stop herself from saying that the Warrior herself certainly wasn't polite company.

Poppy's smile softened and she reached out to place a hand on Alisaie's shoulder. Her thumb brushed against the end of the scar on her collarbone. The nerves there were still healing and likely would be for a long while, so the touch felt distant and odd. The sensation sent a shiver down Alisaie's spine.

"But really, I do like it. It makes us match." Her words were the same from earlier when she noted their bathing suits and Alisaie realized she must have noticed the scars as well. Poppy pressed her other hand against her chest where the mark left by Zenos's blade hid beneath her camise. Alisaie could see the end of it poke out from beneath the hem and stretch across her stomach. She felt strangely emotional at that small similarity they shared. 

"You don't have to be proud of it, though. Hells, you don't even have to like it," Poppy said quietly, sounding thoughtful. "It's just part of who you are now and it's nothing to be ashamed of. If anyone says otherwise, you tell them to sod off."

Alisaie chuckled at the tartness of Poppy's tone. "I did not realize our Warrior of Light was so wise," she teased. She lifted Poppy's hand from her shoulder to kiss the inside of her wrist in silent thanks. Her words had certainly lifted her spirits and she made a good point. It was just a mark on skin. There really was nothing to be ashamed of or embarrassed about.

Poppy smiled at the affectionate gesture and moved closer so that she could wrap her arms around Alisaie's waist and pull her into her lap. "Of course I'm wise. It comes with the title," she joked along.

She leaned in to press several kisses along the end of Alisaie's scar. When she pulled away, Alisaie moved forward to mirror her motions and left her own trail of kisses on the top of Poppy's shoulder where her scar began. She wrapped her arms around the other woman's neck and held her, relaxing at the sensation of Poppy's hands gently running up and down her back in soothing lines. 

And so they sat on the floor of their inn room, dozing peacefully in each other's arms, both glad they had a chance to heal together.

**Author's Note:**

> "Besides, battle scars are to maidens what loose morals are to gentlemen. A definite bonus." is what thancred said about battle scars and maidens, if you were wondering.
> 
> god this is so gay and sappy but i hope y'all enjoyed. when i realized ali and wol would have pretty similar scars after what happened to both of them during stormblood i couldn't help myself. i just love writing sappy stuff about battle scars.


End file.

  1. **table of contents**
  2. **lucidity** : alisaie pov, newly established relationship, takes place during the end of stormblood, somewhat angsty but hopeful
  3. **red suits you** : poppy pov, pre-relationship, takes place during stormblood, lightly angsty fluff, character exploration
  4. **never again** : poppy pov, pre-relationship, takes place during stormblood, angsty, "Oh No I'm In Love", character exploration
  5. **monster** : alisaie pov, established relationship, takes place between 4.1 and 4.2, heavy WoL angst and hurt/comfort
  6. **magpie** : poppy pov, established relationship, takes place shortly after 4.3, angst and hurt/comfort
  7. **home** : poppy pov, established relationship, takes place in nondescript future, light angst and romantic/domestic fluff, character exploration
  8. **for want of warmth** : poppy pov, pre-relationship, takes place during 2.55, WoL angst, character exploration
  9. **treasure hunter** : alisaie pov, newly established relationship, takes place during 4.1, purely cute fluff
  10. **unbearable** : alisaie pov, established relationship, takes place shortly after 4.4, angst and hurt/comfort, slightly spicy kissing
  11. **unburdened and content** : alisaie pov, established relationship, takes place a year after ala mhigo's liberation, romantic lovey fluff, super sappy
  12. **of the blooming blade** : poppy pov, established relationship, takes place around 4.2, light fluff and silly banter
  13. **alone** : poppy pov, established relationship, takes place during 4.5, angst and drama
  14. **red and silver** : multiple pov, established relationship, takes place in a peaceful future, romantic/sappy marriage stuff, just a pinch of angst




	2. lucidity

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> Alisaie dreams as she recovers from her wounds.  
> Takes place between chapters 7 and 8 of _by your side_ (end of Stormblood).

Being bedridden (or being _forced_ into bed, as she liked to reason) gave Alisaie much time to think. Thinking lead to sleeping and sleeping lead to dreaming, for better or for worse.

The Warrior oft came to her in her dreams. They sat together or walked together or even danced as the scenes around them blurred and warped a thousand times in a confusing mess of colors. Poppy spoke to her, whispering indiscernible words excitably as she laughed. Alisaie could never quite hear her.

_“Are you well?”  
_

_“Are you safe?”  
_

_“Will you return soon?”_

The questions fell from Alisaie’s lips and landed heavily at her feet, remaining unheard. Dreams were simply dreams, after all.

The glittering phantoms of Poppy never answered. She smiled and turned away despite Alisaie’s protests, disappearing into streams of blinding light, slipping through her fingers like the sands of Thanalan where she was born. Alisaie would cry out but the illusion around her simply shattered, leaving her feeling empty.

Between bursts of fitful sleep, she woke to a tensely silent infirmary. There had been little communication between the Resistance and the forces sent with the Warrior in fear that the imperials might intercept carefully guarded information. The entire Reach seemed to hold its breath in anticipation.

Alisaie would rise to stretch, do light exercise as she was permitted, walk about the camp, and worry. She worried for Alphinaud, for Lyse, for Poppy. She would lean against the pillars in front of the infirmary in the evenings and stare over the south-most wall of the Reach where the Fringes and the Peaks and the Lochs laid beyond. She found a sliver of comfort in the fact that they all shared the same sky and gazed at the same stars.

The worry always persisted, gnawing at her like a starved beast until late at night when she lay in her cot. Pieces of memories long past played across the backs of Alisaie’s eyelids when sleep finally found her. She saw the fragments of Dalamud, the crystalline spires of the Burning Wall, the Warrior as she returned from one of her harrowing battles.

It was odd how she always looked the happiest after a fight.

Disheveled hair. Bruised knuckles. Bloody knees. Broken bones. She was shattered so many countless times. The fragments grew smaller with each blow and the fissures grew ever deeper, yet she emerged reforged without fail. Always laughing, glinting sharpened fangs as she grinned.

Alisaie watched the scenes unfold before her. She dimly wondered how Poppy managed to be so strong, marveled at her boundless well of energy. How did she do it all? Magic and blessings and a bit of madness, perhaps.

Suddenly, she was surrounded by red. An endless field of flowers billowed around her in the breeze, reminding her of the Ruby Sea’s gentle waves at dawn. The Warrior sat amongst them, not too far off. When she turned her head an ilm to the side and caught Alisaie’s gaze, she smiled and beckoned her to come forward. Alisaie was seated beside her in an instant. She didn’t bother to question the logic of how she’d moved so quickly.

Poppy plucked a flower from the ground and turned to give it to her, brushing fingers that felt too cruelly real against her hand. When Alisaie looked down at what appeared to be a lily with vivid red petals, the world around her snapped into lucid clarity as if the veil of sleep had been lifted from her eyes.

She felt the Warrior shift and lean against her side. Alisaie dared not look at her, afraid to shatter the dream, and focused instead on the glimmering flower in her palm. She soon felt calloused fingers graze across the bare skin of her neck and the warmth of Poppy’s breath bloomed across her cheek as she sighed.

 _“Do me a favor?”_ Her voice was thin and frail, like a sheet of ice formed across a pond at dawn.

Alisaie simply nodded, still focusing on the flower, willing the dream to continue despite how it already began to blur and shimmer at the edges.

_“Don’t forget me after I’m gone.”_

Alisaie almost laughed aloud at the absurdity of the request but managed to hold her tongue, not wanting to be cruel even to an illusion of her dear Warrior. But, she wondered, how could anyone forget the Warrior of Light and all her countless feats? The primals felled, the nations freed, the lives saved.

It took a moment before her thoughts whirred and it clicked into place that she meant the woman _behind_ the title. The soft heart, the nervous flutter of her hands, the tears spilled for every fallen friend. In her shining clarity, Alisaie remembered that the fissures did not disappear even though Poppy always emerged whole. A pit of nagging worry formed in her stomach at the implication of her words.

 _“_ You won’t be gone. You can’t be. _”_

Her own voice was too loud, too real for the false world surrounding her. The flower was crushed in her palm when she clenched her fist and she turned her face towards Poppy.

 _“_ I could never forget you, you Twelvesdamned fool, _”_ she added quietly, feeling her throat tighten as her grip on the dream slipped.

When Poppy laughed, the sound was bright like Starlight bells and all too real. A kiss was pressed against her cheek and fingers brushed against her neck once more as the light surrounding them turned thin and watery and too bright.

Alisaie woke to the sound of distant trumpets. She sat up and looked beyond the infirmary walls to see a sky tinged crimson by the light of dawn.

“They’ve done it!” A man in a cot across the room cried out, voice still hoarse from sleep as the others around him stirred from their own slumber.

The Reach was suddenly alight with similar excited cries as the sound of trumpets continued and grew louder, signaling Ala Mhigo’s freedom. Alisaie felt tears of relief prickle the corners of her eyes. She leaned back against her pillow with a sigh as images from the dream danced through her mind.

“You fool,” she muttered aloud to no one in particular and felt almost angry. “You would make me worry only to emerge victorious. How very like you.” She smiled despite herself, thinking of Poppy’s bright laughter.

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> sometimes you stay up til 4am listening to sad piano music and end up writing whatever the hell this mess is. i have lucid dreams a lot so i wanted to try writing about the experience of having one.
> 
> i have a lot of ideas for little snippets that aren't really substantial enough to be their own thing or don't fit in anywhere else so i'm just gonna shove them all in here. this will be updated randomly as i think of things and will jump around a lot so i'll try to note when each scene takes place. 
> 
> i love hearing yall's feedback so let me know if you enjoyed, or if i can do anything to improve, or even if you have any prompts for future chapters!


	3. red suits you

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> Guilt weighs heavily on Poppy's shoulders after the Reach is ambushed.  
> Takes place after chapter 3 in _by your side_.

Thin beams of sunlight peaked in through the slats that covered the window in her small room. They stretched through the air like tiny arms, catching motes of dust in their wake as they reached for the Warrior. They fell across her cheeks and eyelids, willing her awake with their insistent, rosy brightness.

 _“Rise, my daughter,”_ she imaged Azeyma whispering to her, stirring her from her slumber with warm fingers of sunlight that grazed across her skin. _“A new day is yours.”_

And so she rose with the sun as most Sun Seekers did. She liked it that way. It was always quiet at dawn. No calls to action, no turmoil, not yet. The problems of the world still slept when she woke.

Poppy stood, stretching her arms above her head languidly until a sharp ripple of pain in her chest nearly made her double over. Though the light of dawn pooled around her feet quietly, her mind and body were loud when they reminded her of Zenos, his blade, and all that happened in the Reach only days before. She frowned, tasting bitter frustration rise in the back of her throat.

After dressing slowly through the soreness, Poppy made her way down the hall that housed the Scions. She could feel the weight of her failure settle over her shoulders like a shawl that grew heavier with each step. By the time she reached their shared common area, she was practically drowning in despair.

A sound caught Poppy’s attention and her ear swiveled towards it before she turned her head. When she did, she saw Alisaie who sat alone at a table with her jacket draped across the back of her chair. A silver hairband and red ribbon sat before her along with a half-eaten piece of toast and an empty mug. Her head was bowed forward slightly and face tilted to the side as she passed an ivory colored comb through a curtain of snowy hair that poured over her shoulder, practically shimmering against the black of her shirt.

Poppy inhaled a sharp breath of surprise. She was so used to seeing her companion’s hair neatly braided that the sight of the loose, wavy locks caught her off guard. She froze in the doorway, feeling like she was intruding on a private moment. 

Alisaie didn’t seem to notice her admirer. Her pale lashes flickered in silent concentration and blinked against the bright morning light that poured into the room. When she lifted her arms and moved them behind her head to form her usual braid, she paused mid motion and grimaced. She lowered her hand to rub her shoulder and sighed, brows furrowing in obvious annoyance.

Poppy felt a pang of sympathy. It seemed she wasn't the only one who was sore. The feeling pulled her into the room, tugging at her like an invisible string that made her feet move on their own.

“Need help?” she asked as she approached the table.

When Alisaie looked up, surprise flashed across her face as she quickly lowered her hand from her shoulder. “You needn’t trouble yourself,” she replied, words slightly clipped.

“It’s no trouble,” Poppy said as a bit of a sheepish smile tugged at her lips. Her fingers twitched at her side and she raised her hand almost unconsciously, pressing it to her chest where the fresh wound lay hidden beneath her shirt. She hoped the gesture would convey her silent understanding.

She held out her other hand and motioned to the comb. She saw how Alisaie gripped it and ran her thumb across the prongs as if silently battling with herself before her demeanor softened and she held it out for Poppy to take.

The comb was heavier than she expected. Poppy realized it was likely made of bone and admired how the polished surface shone under the sunlight when she lifted it. She moved behind Alisaie’s chair and pulled the other woman’s hair behind her head, brushing her hands against shoulders that tensed slightly beneath her touch.

Alisaie’s hair was just as soft as she’d imagined. Poppy dimly admitted to herself that she had, in fact, imagined it before and marveled at the sensation of snowy, silken strands slipping through her fingers and passing delicately between the teeth of the comb.

“You’re up early,” she said quietly as she gave a final pass with the comb and moved the hair upward into a high ponytail.

Alisaie's shoulders drooped as she relaxed and she gave a soft hum in reply. “I'm eager to begin our journey to Kugane. I’ve never done well with waiting.”

Poppy smiled as she reached for the hairband. “Aye, I’m much the same.” She clipped the band around Alisaie’s hair and paused to trace the delicate raised details on the silvery surface of the matching hairpin. She sighed lightly before tucking it in place. “I'm ready to move on. I just want to leave this all behind for a while.”

Perhaps her sigh had been too forlorn or her words too fragile. Either way, Alisaie had noticed and there was a pause before she spoke.

“I sincerely hope you do not blame yourself for everything that has happened here.”

The words were loosed with all the preciseness of an arrow and hit directly at the heart of the matter, making Poppy wince at their truth. She remained silent for a breath too long and Alisaie turned her head, practically wrenching her hair from Poppy’s hands to flash her a serious look.

“There was no way we could have foreseen the ambush.” Her tone was firm and held a sort of finality that Poppy knew she had no chance arguing against.

“I know,” she replied through gritted teeth, deciding she would argue anyway. “But for me to be cut down like that-"

“Dwelling on it will change nothing. We carve a path forward.” Alisaie spoke tersely, but her eyes betrayed her with a hint of worry.

The Warrior simply stared, baffled by how Alisaie had managed to glean her worries so easily. In all the time they’d known each other, she'd grown frighteningly adept at seeing through her façade. Poppy's ears flicked back and she averted her eyes from Alisaie’s.

“You’d best _carve a path forward_ with your eyes if you want me to finish this,” she muttered and flicked the back of her companion’s head.

Alisaie let out an amused huff and turned her head forward. Poppy didn’t have to see her face to know she was smirking when she next spoke, “I pray your mood improves before we set off. It would hardly do for you to mope all the way to Kugane.”

Poppy pouted and gave Alisaie’s ponytail a gentle tug in retaliation, which drew a soft sound of annoyance from her companion. “Right, right. I get it.”

She returned her attention to finishing her task. She separated Alisaie's hair into sections and began to weave them together, deftly pulling her fingers through the long, silvery locks. She continued the motion until the braid grew thin and then reached for the ribbon that sat on the table. She ran her thumb over the scrap of silk before she tied it in place.

“You know,” Poppy said as she formed a bow. She paused to straighten it and run her fingers through the soft, wispy hairs at the end of the braid and admired how the ribbon contrasted prettily against the white. “Red suits you.”

Alisaie was silent for a moment before she gave a thoughtful hum. “Is that so?”

Having said it on a whim, Poppy had no response and her face warmed with embarrassment. “All done,” she said quietly and stepped back from the chair.

When Alisaie turned her head, the long braid cut through the air behind her almost menacingly, like the edge of a sharp blade. “Thank you,” she said with a smile and, to Poppy’s surprise, pushed the chair back from the table and stood. She picked up the comb and turned to her. “Take a seat. It’s your turn.”

Poppy stared, feeling embarrassment bubble within her at the disheveled state of her own hair. When Zenos’s blade overcame her, one of her braids was cut completely off in the struggle. In a fit of anger afterwards, she’d cut the other one herself with a dagger which only created an uneven, choppy mess. But when she felt her companion’s expectant gaze burn into her, she relented. Alisaie looked pleased when she sat down.

The comb was passed through the roughly cropped strands with effective gentleness, tugging free the tangles that Poppy hadn’t bothered to brush out herself. She relaxed at the sensation of fingers brushing against her scalp and ears. Her mind wandered from her self-consciousness to the woman who stood behind her.

Alisaie was a bit prickly and her candor was sharp as thorns, but she was never cruel. She was a bit like a rose in that way. Maybe that’s why red suited her. Poppy made a face and was glad that Alisaie couldn’t see her expression. She silently scolded herself for the florid thoughts, but could still feel her face flush.

Alisaie continued to comb in silence for a while before she paused. Poppy felt her fingers run through the ruddy copper strands of her hair and brush against the nape of her neck. She watched as Alisaie bent over to rummage through her coat pocket and was surprised when she pulled out another ribbon similar to her own. 

She gathered Poppy's hair at the base of her neck and tied it together into a messy ponytail that managed to hide the worst of the damage. When she was finished, Poppy cast a curious glance up at her and Alisaie simply smiled. 

“Red suits you as well.”

The light of morning pooled around her feet quietly. Her mind was finally quiet too, thinking only of the warmth of Alisaie’s voice and the softness of her hands.

A new day was hers.

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> i remember using the line "red suits you" in one of the later chapters of _by your side_ and i wanted to expand on that.
> 
> i really like writing these short(er) snippets with these two. it's a good exercise to try to be more concise since my stuff usually ends up really long haha. i hope yall are enjoying too!


	4. never again

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> Poppy realizes something.  
> Takes place after Susano is defeated.

Never again.

Poppy remembered repeating those words to herself over and over.

The weight of Tupsimati in her hands. The sickening crack of a shield shattering. Fragments of crystal falling from the sky like snow.

Never again. Never again. _Never again_.

Never again would she let someone sacrifice themselves for her sake.

She almost forgot those words somewhere along the way amidst the turmoil of war. She certainly wasn't thinking of them when she dragged herself onto the shore beside Lyse.

Poppy stood, wobbling and shaking, dripping salt water mixed with blood as a deep exhaustion settled in her bones. Though she could no longer drown, she almost felt like she had.

Lyse wanted to go back. Alisaie was at the Isle of Zekki, likely still fighting the red Kojin. Poppy thought about how brave she had been, how strong, how easily she cut the beastmen down. Yet the Warrior was still afraid. She wanted to go back too, but Lyse balked at that.

"Absolutely not," she argued.

She was oddly adamant about going alone. But Poppy would not yield and far too many precious seconds crept past as they bickered. Eventually, the Warrior stubbornly moved back towards the sea despite Lyse’s protests and stopped only when the other woman grabbed her arm and pulled her away from the water.

“She stayed behind so that _you_ could escape. Even I know that.”

Poppy felt like Lyse had punched her in the gut. She went slack in her grip when she remembered her old mantra:

_Never again._

Though her body ached and her blood felt like lead in her veins, she struggled against Lyse’s grasp with newfound strength, deaf to her pleas and protests.

Sacrifice was an ugly thing. There was no beauty in it, no sense, and certainly no romance. There was only heaviness. She carried those deaths with her but could only bear so much weight. She knew she couldn’t handle much more. Not now. Not Alisaie. Especially not Alisaie.

The word _especially_  echoed across her thoughts and gave her pause for a moment. Before she could think too hard, the source of her and Lyse’s distress emerged from the sea.

Alisaie had the gall to joke. How tartly she spoke of "heroic and ultimately futile last stands". Normally, it would have been enough to make Poppy scream in frustration. Relief flooded through her instead, washing everything else away like the tide pooled around her feet. She was granted a precious few moments of ease. 

Poppy was surprised to see Lyse rush forward and pull Alisaie into an embrace. She was more surprised that she wanted to do the same. She wanted to hold her, to check her wounds, to scold her, to cry. It all swirled around her mind in a confusing cacophony of emotion. Instead of acting on her thoughts, she remained rooted in place, swaying slightly as her exhausted body struggled to keep her upright after the overexertion of slaying a primal.

When Alisaie approached, her silvery hair clung to her face, still dripping water from the sea. She was scratched up and bruised, but still whole. 

 _Never again. Never scare me like that again_ , Poppy wanted to say, but didn't. "Are you alright?" she managed to croak out instead.

"Me? Of course," was Alisaie's brusque reply. She smiled almost smugly, but reached out and gave Poppy's arm a gentle squeeze that wordlessly spoke reassurance.

They were returning to Isari. That's what Poppy assumed Lyse had said, anyway. She trailed along behind her companions, lost in thought.

Guilt pricked her mind like tiny needles and she frowned. Why was she so concerned about Alisaie in particular, when she was clearly an adept swordswoman? Had the others not meant as much to her before they passed? No, that wasn't it, of course they had. Yet as she stole lingering glances in the direction of Alisaie, her mouth went dry and her chest ached. She felt heavy, as if an anchor was weighing her down and dragging her into the depths of the sea.

There was a brief moment of terrifying clarity that nearly made her heart stop its fluttering beats. She wondered at what point she'd fallen in love.

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> i wrote this after rewatching some ruby sea cutscenes. that line lyse says about ali staying behind so wol can escape gets me every time.


	5. monster

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> The Warrior of Light is battered, bruised, and tired.  
> Takes place between 4.1 and 4.2

The fire crackled lazily in the corner. As Alisaie turned a page, it popped loudly enough to startle her away from the contents of her book. She looked up as she let the page slip from between her fingers and saw that the flames had died down considerably. When she stood from her desk to tend it, she rubbed her eyes sleepily.

She’d gotten up nearly a bell ago and had promptly buried her nose in a book when she couldn’t fall back asleep. A nagging feeling of apprehension had burrowed itself deep enough into her thoughts that she couldn’t quite shake it off. Perhaps it was from an unpleasant dream she couldn’t quite remember or perhaps it was residual anxiety left over from the past few moons of warfare and battles. It was irritating either way.

Alisaie yawned into her palm as she knelt before the small fireplace. She reached into the basket beside it to retrieve a log from the pile that she promptly fed to the dying flames. The fire sputtered back to life in an instant, crackling almost happily as it consumed the fresh tinder. Alisaie sat for a long while, comforted by the warmth. She was still often surprised by how cold nights could be in Gyr Abania.

A sudden knock drew her attention away from the fireplace. It was so quiet that she thought she’d imagined it at first, but when it came again, slightly louder that time, she looked over her shoulder towards the door. She was confused as to who else would be awake at such an hour and also feel the need to see her.

As she stood, she realized that it was likely Alphinaud and felt mildly annoyed. Much like herself, he probably couldn't sleep and came to talk her ear off about politics or some other nonsense. She almost considered not answering, but made her way across the room nonetheless, thinking that her brother's rambling would at least put her to sleep.

When Alisaie opened the door to see the Warrior of Light, she was caught off guard. Her mild annoyance faded into surprise and then quickly turned into alarm when she took in the other woman's disheveled state. 

"Sorry to bother you so late," Poppy said with uncharacteristic meekness. She offered a weak smile, but Alisaie saw how her ears were pinned back and how her hands balled into fists at her sides. It was dark in the hall, but she could also see red splotches on the front of her shirt. 

"Twelve above," Alisaie murmured softly. In a panic, she grabbed Poppy by the wrist, who flinched but allowed herself to be pulled into the room. With the door shut behind them, Alisaie tugged her closer to further inspect her face. Thanks to the light of the fireplace and lantern behind her, she could clearly see the bruises painted beneath the Warrior's eyes. Her lip was split and still bleeding and there was dry blood caked beneath her nose, which explained the stains on her shirt. "What happened to you?" Alisaie asked, trying her hardest not to sound worried.

"Just got in a little scrap. Nothing to worry about," Poppy said dismissively. She tried to sound calm, but Alisaie felt her tremble beneath her touch and saw her tail twitch behind her erratically. 

Alisaie took a breath and bit back the retorts that formed on her tongue. She waited for a moment, expecting an explanation of some sort, but got none. Poppy broke away from her gaze to look at the fireplace, seeming intent on staying silent. Alisaie sighed and let go of her wrist. She stepped back towards her desk to give the other woman some space despite feeling the burning need to both scold and coddle her. It was a dance the two of them often did. Poppy was too stubborn to openly speak of her troubles, but with a bit of patience Alisaie could pry out what was ailing her. 

She busied herself with playing nursemaid and found a towel and pitcher of water on her bedside table that she took to her desk. After moving her books aside, she rummaged through a drawer to find several fire shards and a jar of poultice kept for just such occasions. She dropped a shard into the water and then cast a furtive glance over her shoulder.

Poppy had crumpled onto the floor before the fireplace. She hugged a leg against her chest and rested her chin atop her knee as she stared into the flames, looking very much like a beaten child. She swayed gently, likely from exhaustion and blood loss, and a pained expression was pulled across her features. Alisaie turned back to the pitcher and frowned. The Warrior's injuries didn't seem life-threatening, but the silence was troubling. Poppy had shrugged off worse before with little more than a laugh and a toothy grin. Something else was clearly amiss and she ached to know what it was.

With the warm, damp towel and poultice in hand, Alisaie crossed the room and paused to kneel before the Warrior, moving slowly as to not startle her. Poppy stirred from her stupor to look at her when she sat. The dejected expression she wore caused Alisaie's stomach to knot, but she lifted the towel an ilm and shot the Warrior an inquisitive look. Poppy stared at it for a moment before she let go of her leg and leaned forward slightly. Alisaie took that as permission granted and reached out to run a finger down the bridge of her nose. When she felt no obvious bumps in the cartilage, she began to wipe away the blood that had dried there with the gentleness of someone who was afraid to shatter a delicate glass. 

"It's not broken," Poppy said quietly, echoing Alisaie's thoughts. "I checked." 

Alisaie tried to meet her gaze, but Poppy insisted on looking down at the floor as if the stonework was the most fascinating thing in the world. She gritted her teeth briefly and tried to hold her tongue, but her patience was worn thin from worry. It was time to end the dance and get to the bottom of things.

"Do you intend to tell me about what manner of trouble you've gotten yourself into, or must I drag it out of you?" she asked slowly, sounding mildly annoyed despite her forced patience. 

"I told you, it was just a little scrap," Poppy replied with an edge of defensiveness to her words. She winced when Alisaie dabbed at the cut on her lip with more pressure than intended.

"I do believe that I deserve to hear the truth," Alisaie shot back. "Especially after you've barged into my room at such an ungodly hour."

Poppy finally lifted her gaze from the floor only to pout at her. "To be fair, you were awake and you did _drag_ me in here."

Despite the circumstances, the attempted humor relieved Alisaie a touch before she remembered her impatience. She hastily uncapped the jar of poultice and sighed. 

" _You_ knocked," she reminded the Warrior pointedly as she spread some over the cut. "Clearly, you wished to speak with me. So speak." 

The dim light of the fireplace illuminated the tension written on Poppy's face. Any inkling of ease and humor had evaporated in an instant and Alisaie felt guilty for sounding overly harsh. Something akin to fear flickered behind Poppy's gaze briefly before she took a shuddering breath that made her shoulders sag. Alisaie saw how her knuckles paled when she firmly dug her nails into her thighs. 

"A stray band of Imperials attacked the salt mines near Loch Seld," Poppy began, finally relenting. 

Alisaie's hands froze. A small flame of anger ignited within her when she heard their enemy's name. "Did they do this to you?" she asked, barely able to conceal that anger.

"They got a few jabs in before I cut them down," Poppy replied absently. "The miners seemed relieved. They thanked me for helping them. But..." she trailed off and her gaze became distant as if she were looking right through Alisaie. When she next spoke, her voice was barely audible, "Am I any better than Zenos?"

Alisaie nearly dropped the towel as she stared at the Warrior, confused by the suddenness and absurdity of the question. "What? Of course you're-"

"Am I, really?" Poppy cut in before she could finish. Her voice sounded so distant and frail, as if she would shatter at any moment, but seemed to force herself to continue, "There was a man there, one of the miners. He watched me fight. Stared at me from afar afterwards while I talked to the others. Then as I was about to leave, he came up and punched me. Right on the nose."

A tense silence hung around them for a long moment as Alisaie reeled in shock. Mind blank, she watched as Poppy flattened her palms against her legs and bowed her head low over her lap.

"He said he had a brother who joined the Resistance because of me. He died in the ambush. He said it was my fault."

The flicker of anger flared up in Alisaie's chest, consuming her in its flames as she wrung the bloody towel in her lap. She remembered how Poppy had shouldered the blame for the ambush, how she'd beaten herself down over something she had no control over. How dare a stranger blame her for that when she fought so hard to prevent it. How _dare_ he. "We've discussed this before. That was hardly your-"

"He called me a murderer," Poppy cut her off harshly as her head bowed lower. "He pointed to the bodies of the Imperial troops and said that would've been all of them if I'd been on the other side. He said I was no better than Zenos. He said I was a monster." She paused and began to tremble, breaths coming out in ragged huffs. "The others restrained him and apologized, but I could see it in their eyes. They were scared. They were scared of me." 

It was not often that the Warrior of Light unraveled. Yet there she sat amongst the rubble of her crumbled facade, broken and anguished and so unbearably defeated. Alisaie felt her throat tighten and burn until she almost couldn't breathe.

"Poppy," she whispered urgently, desperate to reach her before she fell apart completely. Alisaie moved towards her, but the Warrior flinched away to bury her face in her hands. 

"Gods, they're right," Poppy breathed heavily between her fingers. "I'm a monster."

Alisaie knew that the realm's peace was often paid for at Poppy's expense; every drop of blood shed, every bone broken, every bruise, cut, and wound. Yet people would repay her sacrifice with such cruelty. If only they knew the depth of her sadness or the crushing weight that she carried. If only they knew how she pushed forward with such admirable strength. If only they knew _her_.

Alisaie shifted closer to the other woman so that their knees nearly touched. A curtain of loose, snowy hair slid over her shoulder as she leaned forward and reached out to brush her fingers against Poppy's hand. She flinched, but didn't pull away.

"Look at me," Alisaie urged gently.

After a few more shuddering breaths, Poppy calmed herself enough to drop her hands from her face. Alisaie moved a finger beneath her chin and lifted it so that she could meet her gaze. Poppy looked back at her with glassy, bloodshot eyes. The flickering light of the fire beside them exaggerated the shadowy bruises that made her skin look sickly.

Before Alisaie could speak, Poppy found her voice, " _You and I are one and the same_. He said that to me once."

Alisaie knew she referred to Zenos. Her lips pursed into a thin frown before she spoke, quiet but fervent, "You have been a pillar of strength for this world and have done more for all of Hydaelyn than most could ever hope to do. To think that some would twist those accomplishments and compare you to him..." _How could they? How dare they?_ she added silently, but swallowed the words. "You kill for necessity, not sport. You are no monster. You are _nothing_ like Zenos. And if any fool should dare lay a finger on you or say otherwise again, then they shall answer to my sword." Alisaie practically spat the last words out as anger twisted violently in her gut once more.

Poppy watched her the entire time she spoke, gaze unwavering, eyes watering slightly and looking oddly hollow. She didn't look wholly convinced, but her face softened. "Thank you." She breathed the words between them softly, so soft that they almost seemed to float away like the tiny flecks of ash carried by the warmth of the fire.

"I was simply speaking the truth," Alisaie replied, offering a small smile as she moved her hand from beneath Poppy's chin to cup her cheek. _Please believe me,_ came her silent plea. "I only wish that I could do more for you."

"You already do so much," Poppy said, sounding almost offended by Alisaie's words. She tilted her head and closed her eyes as she leaned into the touch. 

They sat in silence for a long moment. Alisaie allowed the Warrior time to reforge herself as she always did and offered what little comfort she could by dragging her thumb idly across her cheek in soothing motions. The fireplace crackled lazily next to them. When Poppy finally stopped trembling beneath her hand, the flames had nearly died again. 

"I'm tired," Poppy said after a while, voice hoarse from exhaustion. "I just want to sleep and forget everything for a while."

Alisaie nodded before she retracted her hand. "Of course." 

When they were both on their feet, she lead Poppy towards the bed. The Warrior divested herself of her boots, her bloody shirt, and the light armor bound to her shoulders. Only her daggers escaped being thrown into the heap on the floor. She placed them on the bedside table with great care before she crawled beneath the sheets and collapsed with a sigh.

With Poppy against her side, Alisaie leaned over to press a soft kiss against the other woman's lips, tasting the herbal perfume of the poultice she'd applied earlier. "Rest," she ordered gently. 

Poppy flashed a weak smile. Alisaie was relieved to see it, even if it was strained.

She watched Poppy until her breaths slowed and all the tension finally left her body. The Warrior clung to her as she slept, hanging onto Alisaie for dear life as if she were the only thing keeping her afloat on a sea made of nightmares. She absently smoothed Poppy's ruffled hair as her words replayed in her mind over and over:

_Monster. I'm a monster._

The Warrior hadn't believed her when she said otherwise. She could tell by the look in Poppy's eyes that she'd only managed to offer her an empty platitude. But, at the very least, it had granted her an onze of relief. For now, that was enough. 

Alisaie wondered if the Mother Crystal knew how her daughter suffered. She quietly seethed at the unfairness of it all and wrapped an arm around Poppy, vowing to shield the Warrior of Light from the damnation of both gods and men alike.

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> welcome aboard the wol pain train where the next 700 stops are me writing angsty garbage. this kinda spiraled out of control and ended up longer than i thought it'd be, but boy do i love some wol angst. i'll try to write something less melancholy next time (unless yall wanna suffer more with me hehheheh).


	6. magpie

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> Poppy collects things when she's nervous.  
> Takes place shortly after 4.3

As she entered the Rising Stones, Poppy's attention was immediately drawn to the far hall that lead to the Solar. She wasn't surprised when her gaze fell on the Elezen who leaned against the wall there. Her arms were crossed and a pensive look furrowed her brow, but when she looked up at the approaching Warrior, her mood seemed to brighten a touch.

"And what has my magpie brought for me today?"

Alisaie called the question out, sounding wry. A smile lit up her face and though it didn't quite reach her eyes, Poppy was still glad to see it. The Warrior narrowed her eyes in mock offense at the greeting, but let a grin slip as she lifted a paper bag.

"Nothing quite so shiny today, I'm afraid," she quipped in reply and gestured with the bag towards an empty table.

Nearly a fortnight ago, with the dust of the prisoner exchange and all that followed suit just barely settled, Y'shtola had pulled Poppy aside to that very table. With quiet whispers and furtive glances towards Alisaie, she'd urged, " _'Twould be a kindness if you were to visit from time to time, and distract her from her cares._ "

Poppy hadn't seen her quite so distraught since their adventures that uncovered her grandfather's fate. Alphinaud was a capable man and could handle himself, but Garleans were still Garleans and Poppy found herself sharing Alisaie's worries. However, there was naught they could do but wait for his word to reach them. If Alisaie's patience was no virtue as she'd grudgingly mentioned, then Poppy's own _impatience_ would be considered a sin. Waiting was painful, like nails itching irritably beneath her skin, and worry for both siblings nearly drove her mad.

And so Poppy had done just as Y'shtola said. Truthfully, she barely even left the Rising Stones at all. Though her duties pulled her all across Hydaelyn, she'd returned nearly every day, unwilling to leave Alisaie alone for long even at the expense of overexerting herself with aether draining teleportation spells.

Her sudden near constant presence hadn't gone unnoticed, of course. She heard the well-meaning but teasing whispers from her fellow Scions about how she'd become a love struck pup waiting at her lady's heels. A dagger-sharp glare from Poppy had been enough to silence even the boldest among them. It was certainly enough to fend off the leering glances she felt as she sat with Alisaie at the table. The other Scions quickly left the two of them to their business, not daring to fan the flames of their Warrior's ire.

Her attention returned to her partner, who glanced from her to the bag between them with bemused anticipation. Poppy grinned again as she tipped the bag over and let the bright orange fruit inside tumble out.

"Ta-dah," she announced cheerfully. "Persimmons!"

Alisaie stared at the fruit for a moment before she let out a breathy laugh. Disbelief was written across her face as if it was the most absurd sight in the world. Perhaps it was absurd, Poppy realized, to be hand-delivered exotic fruit by the Warrior of Light.

"You lied. These are quite shiny," Alisaie said pointedly as a smirk curled her lips. She lifted a persimmon close to her face as if to admire the bright, polished surface of the fruit. "Where in the world did you procure these from?"

"Namai. I was there earlier," Poppy replied, smiling as she retrieved a knife from her belt. "The villagers insisted I take some. I guess they're in season."

She reached for the closest persimmon and began to skillfully cut the stem and leaves away as instructed by the man who gave her the fruit. She cut a thin slice and handed it to Alisaie, who had been watching her with interest. She fearlessly popped the piece of fruit into her mouth and immediately gave an appreciative hum. Poppy cut herself a piece and soon enjoyed the pleasant, honeyed taste.

"It's good. Very sweet," Alisaie said and nodded when Poppy offered her another slice.

It had become a strange little ritual for them to sit together with the things Poppy brought back from her travels. With her nervously fluttering hands, the Warrior reached out and grabbed any sort of small distraction she could pull in, anything to ease Alisaie's ache, anything to make her forget her worry for just a moment. Perhaps she was like a magpie after all, she thought.

There had been a handful of shells from the Ruby Sea that they cleaned and arranged on a shelf in Alisaie's room. She brought back a fistful of flowers from the Azim Steppe that Alisaie identified in a botanical tome and helped Poppy press into her journal. The Warrior even returned with a strange novel from the markets of Gridania and was stunned to find out it was just badly written smut that they'd laughed over together one candlelit evening. Those small distractions didn't make word from Alphinaud come any quicker, but they offered a bell or two of ease, and that was enough.

The pair sat together in comfortable silence then, exchanging bites of fruit and enjoying each other's company. Poppy smiled when she saw Alisaie's smile and quietly relished in the moment of peace she'd managed to create.

"Thank you for sharing the persimmons with me," Alisaie said after a while, sounding wistful. "I can see why Gosetsu is fond of them."

When she saw a hint of sadness return to Alisaie's expression, Poppy inhaled a sharp breath and mentally kicked herself for her thoughtlessness. In her haste to lessen the blow of Alphinaud's absence, she'd dredged up memories of Gosetsu's departure.

Poppy stared down at the bright fruit in her palm, suddenly thinking of Yotsuyu and all the disturbing events that took place at Castrum Fluminis. Pity and anger and whole host of other feelings wriggled in her gut like little worms that nearly made her ill. She hastily placed the persimmon back on the table, unable to eat any more. When she ventured to look at Alisaie, she saw how the other woman stared back at her intently. Poppy could almost feel a question forming on her partner's lips and quickly moved to intercept it.

"Why don't we go for a walk around the Toll? Weather's nice today."

The sudden, too-cheerfully delivered question made Alisaie's brow quirk. "You consider the gloom to be nice weather?" she asked in return, sounding skeptical.

The question gave Poppy a pause. She blinked as she realized her misstep, but the sweetness of the persimmon was suddenly too cloying on her tongue and she truly needed some air.

"I do, actually," the Warrior shot back, sniffing indignantly as she committed to her new plan. "What, you don't think weird aether fog is nice? Come on, let's go stretch our legs."

With that, Poppy stood from the table and marched them out of Rising Stones, with Alisaie offering no further protests aside from a weary sounding sigh.

-x-

Though it was barely past midday, it looked as though twilight had already fallen across the Toll. As Alisaie had pointed out, the gloom was in full effect. Pinkish fog curled around them and clouded the sky overhead, causing the meager beams of sunlight that managed to shine past it to cast an odd sort of shimmer through the air. It was certainly a bizarre phenomenon, but Poppy really did think it was nice in a strange sort of way. Despite the fact that all the ambient aether made her feel woozy, it made the otherwise barren, crystalline landscape of Mor Dhona a sight to behold from the walkways above the Toll's markets.

Poppy hopped up onto the parapet to get a better look. She lifted a hand to shield her eyes as if that would help her see through the fog and squinted at the distance.

"You can kinda see Silvertear from here," she commented quietly and rocked forward on her heels to admire the eerie, shimmering crystals sprawled around the distant tides of the lake.

Instead of appreciating the landscape as Poppy hoped she would have, Alisaie was more interested in gazing up at her warily. "You're going to fall," she deadpanned, doing her best to guard her worry.

Poppy glanced down at her partner with a sneer. She was content with making a fool of herself to brighten the other woman's still sullen mood, if that's what it took. "Will not," she chirped back as she leaned forward further. Her toes dangled precariously over the edge of the parapet, leaving only her heels on the stone surface. Her tail waved behind her triumphantly like a flag and brushed against Alisaie's cheek as if to remind her that Miqo'te didn't just _fall_.

"Don't blame me when you end up gored on the crystals below, then," Alisaie huffed in reply as she swatted the tail away. She pouted and stuck her nose up in that arrogant, smug way that Poppy so adored.

As the Warrior tried to spin on her heel to stick her tongue out at her companion the fog swirled around her, filling her head with cobwebs and making her feel dizzy. She lost her footing and likely would have fallen if Alisaie hadn't quickly grabbed her by the hand and pulled her back towards the walkway. Poppy sat down heavily on the parapet and held her head in her hands, silently cursing her stupidly high aether sensitivity.

"I _told_ you. Twelve, you're going to send me to an early grave," Alisaie said, sounding almost annoyed. After exhaling a breath of relief, she placed her hands on Poppy's shoulders. "Are you alright?"

When the worst of the dizziness passed, Poppy looked up at her companion. It was an odd sensation, she noted blearily, to be looking _up_ at Alisaie for once. It was a reality she likely would have to get used to in the coming moons and years when her love would sprawl heads above her as most Elezen did. She shelved the thoughts for later and flashed a weary smile.

"I'm fine," she replied. "Just tired from traveling so much." 

Alisaie stared down at her for a moment with an unreadable expression written across her face. Her hands retreated from Poppy's shoulders so she could cross her arms and then tilted her head to the side as if she'd just pieced together some sort of mystery that had been plaguing her.

"You've been visiting quite frequently as of late," she mused quietly, shooting Poppy a wary look. "Y'shtola wouldn't have happened to put you up to that, would she?" 

Poppy stared up at her partner, reeling in disbelief. As per usual, Alisaie had struck at the heart of the matter with little hesitation. "I just thought you could use some company," she said quietly, ears flicking back and betraying her guilt. "With Alphinaud...gone and all..."

She trailed off when she saw a flicker of what looked like irritation cross Alisaie's face. The other woman was silent for a brief moment as her lips pursed into a thin frown.

"I am perfectly capable of being by myself. As you may recall, I have spent most of my time in Eorzea alone. My dear brother need not be plastered against my side," Alisaie said. The words were clipped and harsh and stung like nettles. "I am no child who needs to be coddled, Poppy."

The Warrior stared down at her lap and wrung her hands as the possibility of distracting Alisaie from her worries slipped from between her fingers. Though she had good intentions, she hadn't considered that perhaps her actions were patronizing. She felt the cloying sweetness of the persimmons rise in her throat and the draining sensation of the aetheric fog made her head swim. She wallowed in her failure, feeling miserable suddenly.

Above her, Alisaie was silent. Poppy heard her exhale a long breath and when she looked back up, her companion's features had softened. She seemed to regret her words. "Pray forgive my harshness. I'm...on edge, is all." 

Alisaie's gaze was pulled over the Warrior's head. She finally looked out at the pink-tinted landscape with an impassive expression. Poppy glanced up at her, unsure if she should apologize or argue. She wet her lips but no words came out so she settled on silence, feeling as though cotton bolls filled her mouth.

"I hate this," Alisaie whispered after a while, still staring out at the horizon. "I hate waiting."

Poppy frowned. "I know."

"I feel helpless. I want to _do_ something, not just languish here all day."

"I know," Poppy repeated herself quietly.

When Alisaie finally looked back down, her stoic mask had cracked. Her pale brows were drawn together and her steely eyes were soft with worry.

"Will he be alright?"

Poppy thought for a moment before she gave a nod. "Yes," was her simple but firm reply. She truly believed it. She believed in Alphinaud.

"And if he's not?"

The question hung in the air between them for a moment as if stuck in the fog.

"Then I go to Garlemald and burn it to the ground."

Poppy fixed a hard stare up at her companion and hopped she knew just how serious she was. Alisaie stared back in disbelief just as she had when the persimmons spilled across their table at the Rising Stones.

"I see now why Thancred forbade you from going with him."

Poppy stood with a huff, ignoring the dizziness that made her want to sit back down. "I trained with _shinobi_. I think I could've handled myself," she muttered more to herself, still mildly offended by Thancred's implication that her sneaking skills weren't up to snuff.

At her full height, Poppy stood a scant ilm or two above her companion. Though Alisaie looked up at her with the beginnings of a smirk pulled across her lips, her expression reflected the same hesitation Poppy felt. The Warrior reached out and tentatively placed a hand on her arm to break the tension built between them. At that contact, Alisaie finally let her mask slip and stepped forward into Poppy's arms, allowing herself a rare moment of vulnerability. She pressed her face against Poppy's shoulder and sighed.

"Thank you for visiting me. I appreciate it, truly," Alisaie said softly, warm breath tickling Poppy's skin. "But you needn't do so at the expense of your health. Surely there are more important things for you to do than fuss over me."

Poppy felt the drained heaviness that came with extended periods of aetheryte travel settle across her body, but didn't care. The strain was worth it to her. She leaned forward to press a cheek against the side of Alisaie's bowed head and murmured into the other woman's snowy hair, "Nothing's more important than you".

Alisaie said nothing in reply. Poppy thought that perhaps she hadn't heard her, but only a moment later Alisaie pulled her closer. Her arms wrapped around her waist like vines starved for sunlight and held tight. The nervous flutter of Poppy's hands finally ceased when she reached out once more to hold her in return. The gloom swirled around them as they embraced. It was silent as a ghost and just as eerie. They were silent with it, finding words no longer necessary.

Poppy knew that persimmons and sea shells wouldn't fix things. Neither would idle words nor sweet embraces, but it was all that they had. It was enough. It would have to be, until they could finally act.

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> life's been pretty busy but i had to write this after finishing 4.3. that msq sure was exciting, to say the least!  
> the twins' interactions were so good. i feel like alisaie always tries really hard to pretend she doesn't care about alphinaud as much as she does, but seeing her reaction to him leaving was really sweet.


	7. home

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> Poppy wonders if she has a home and realizes that she does.  
> Takes place in a nondescript peaceful future.

It always took her a moment to remember where she was when she first woke up. Poppy would stare up at the ceiling for a while, blinking as the haze of sleep lifted from her mind, and slowly remembered where the winding roads of her life had taken her.

It was usually exciting; waking up in a new town every morning, finding mischief to get into, helping people and saving lives. It was every adventurer’s dream and it _had_ been exciting at first when the world was still largely unexplored and her responsibilities were as minute as delivering packages and culling pesky wildlife.

Poppy had traveled the world enough to sate her wanderlust for ten lives. The excitement of mornings inevitably grew dull and often turned to trepidation as more and more responsibility was heaped onto her shoulders. Her accumulated titles were like weights on her chest that sometimes kept her in bed long after she remembered where she'd ended up.

There was one morning she realized that the impossibly large world she traversed had grown incredibly small. It was that same morning that her excitement had turned into a gnawing loneliness that pulled her somewhere in some indiscernible direction, leaving her feeling empty and confused. Despite the world’s smallness, she didn’t know where in it she belonged.

She often wondered if she had a home. Adventurers never settled, after all, and the Warrior of Light always had to be somewhere, but not for long. She had many places she _could_ call home, if she was so inclined; a room at Rhalgr’s Reach, a room at the Rising Stones, a room at the Waking Sands, camp Dragonhead, Idylshire, Fortemps Manor, and a room at every inn in every city-state across Eorzea and beyond.

None of those felt quite right.

Poppy would occasionally return to Eastern Thalanan and ride across the sands where she was born. It should be her home, she thought, but she just felt like a stranger there. When she happened to catch the leery glances of her former tribe, she felt more like a trespasser.

She would visit the tavern where she grew up, nestled among the rocks of the Nanawa mines. Her mother would ruffle her hair and call her _L’arra_ and make her cups of ginger tea. She should have felt at home there, but didn't. Instead she felt like a ghost of herself, of who she was before she became the Warrior.

Ul’dah was the closest she ever came to having a home. That was ruined by the plotting of the Syndicate and Ilberd’s treachery. She’d lost the Scions and her dignity and some small irreplaceable piece of herself there. She could never quite shake the unease that settled in the back of her mind when she wandered those familiar streets.

Eventually, she stopped trying to find her place in the world. Or perhaps she simply forgot amdist the turmoil that she always found herself entangled in. That alone was often enough to conceal the sense of misplacement and the biting feeling of loneliness.

However, she wasn’t always alone.

The air was dry and hot. It had been warmed by Azeyma's rays but was not yet unpleasant. A faint breeze pushed into the room and draped itself over her like blanket. A gangly, sleeping Elezen was also draped over her like a blanket, though was far more bony and not nearly as comfortable.

She and Alisaie were a tangle of limbs and sheets. The Warrior's snowy-haired bedmate lay on her stomach beside her with her cheek pressed against Poppy's shoulder, breathing warm puffs of air against her collarbone. Though her arm had nearly gone numb and the rest of her was half-trapped beneath the tangle of her partner's long legs, it was certainly more welcome than the mornings she woke up on her own.

Poppy stared up at the ceiling, blinking as sleep still veiled her senses in a dreamy fog. Absently, she ran her fingers through Alisaie's hair to root herself in reality and push back a subtle jab of anxiety. It still took her a moment to remember where she was, even on those days.

Her gaze was pulled across the room to where open windowpanes clattered quietly against the wall when the breeze grew stronger. She saw peeks of a pale blue morning sky and spires of sandy rock when the gust settled the billowing curtains down. She lifted her head an ilm and could see the distant dunes of Blackbrush glisten across the canyon.

Her partner shifted and wrapped the arm that had been draped across the Warrior’s chest around her waist, pulling her closer. Poppy lowered her head back against the pillow with a sigh as her eyes were suddenly drawn towards Alisaie’s sleeping face. Pale lashes were pressed against her cheeks and equally pale hair hid half her face like a gossamer veil. Her breaths were deep and even and her eyes fluttered lazily beneath her eyelids. Poppy wondered what she dreamed of. She hoped it was something nice.

 _Home_ , a voice hummed happily in her head before she caught herself thinking it. She pondered for a moment, tossing the word through her mind to see if it would stick.

Poppy’s apartment was small but comfortable. It was a colorful cacophony of trinkets and treasures and anything that caught her eye during her travels across Eorzea and beyond. It was "organized chaos", as Alisaie called it, and a true reflection of the hectic nature of her life. She’d carved that space for herself among the cliffs hidden beneath Ul’dah’s quiet shadow. It was something that was truly hers.

When she gazed down at her sleeping partner, she knew that the room itself wasn’t wholly why she felt so at ease. Though life was oftentimes pure madness, Alisaie was always there. If not with her then waiting for her, stubborn and steadfast as a rock settled in a tumultuous river. Her presence was like a beacon that pulled Poppy across the world and through it all, a pull stronger than that of any aetheryte or the call of any god. Her chest ached at that knowledge. It felt as heavy as her responsibilities, though not nearly as painful.

Alisaie stirred and snapped Poppy out of her sleep addled reveries. She blinked a few times as if shaking away the last few fragments of her dreams and smiled up at the woman she reclined on, so soft and sweet that Poppy felt her heart swell.

“’Morning, love,” she murmured in greeting.

“Good morning,” Alisaie replied, and after a stifled yawn continued, “Did you sleep well?”

Poppy hummed in reply when she realized she had. Better than in a long while, in fact. “Well enough,” she said, tone catching a wry edge, “Until your big head started to crush me, that is.”

Alisaie made a soft sound of apology and propped herself up on her elbow, detangling their limbs and freeing Poppy’s numb arm in the process. When the Warrior stretched languidly beneath her and let out an exaggerated sigh of relief, Alisaie rolled her eyes. She finally found her wit through her drowsiness and huffed in feigned offense.

“Perhaps you should consider a larger bed lest you be crushed beneath my _big head_ every morning.”

Poppy stared up at Alisaie’s sleepy, teasing smirk and pouted. In her partner’s defense, the bed was rather too small for both of them to share comfortably. It wasn’t chosen with a much taller than herself Elezen bedmate in mind. She’d have to remedy that.

“Not a bad idea,” Poppy replied in earnest, silently delighted by how the phrase _every morning_ sounded.

Alisaie’s face softened when she smiled down at the Warrior. The pale light of morning made the blue of her eyes practically glow beneath lashes made of snow. It was an achingly beautiful sight. Poppy felt the long strands of Alisaie’s hair tickle her cheek as she leaned down to press a gentle kiss against her brow. She sighed, happily basking in the warmth of her love’s presence.

_I’m home._

The word resurfaced in her mind again. She didn’t question it that time.

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> just something short and sweet i wrote one morning when i couldn't sleep. i needed something a little more light-hearted after all the angst!


	8. for want of warmth

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> Poppy is cold and miserable.  
> Takes place during 2.55

White.

Oh, how she was beginning to _hate_ that color.

Poppy didn't understand why people even bothered living in Coerthas anymore. The snow was enough to drive any sane person mad, yet droves of them filtered in and out of Camp Dragonhead all throughout the day.

There were groups of adventurers passing through, weary merchants coming to trade their wares, and knights going through the motions of their duties. Lots of them complained about the cold, groaning like the tree branches heavy with their snowy burden, but they marched onward anyway, some even managing to laugh and be cheerful as they pushed through the frigid landscape.

Poppy was up on the walls of the camp, crouching on a rampart like a sullen gargoyle as she stared at those passing through the gates below. Strands of hair curled around her face like a mane, free from its usual braids and lightly matted from wind and snowmelt, unruly and unkempt as the sharp nails that dug into the icy surface of the stones beneath her. She certainly must have looked like a gargoyle as much as she felt like one.

She couldn't quite place what she was feeling at that moment, but it was somewhere between angry and annoyed and utterly broken. Some small part of her hated the people milling about below, so blithely oblivious of the freedom they had. They could come and go as they pleased while she was trapped there in a frozen prison surrounded by naught else but cold stone walls. It wasn't fair.

The snow was uncaring of her turmoil. It fell from the sky in large puffs that looked like the downy feathers of a chocobo chick and stuck to her hair and her lashes and every part of her it could reach. Every flake felt like a needle against her skin when it touched her, melting into icy droplets that quickly soaked through clothes ill-suited for the weather. A loose cotton shirt, a thin sarouel, and strapped sandals of all things; her dress was a foolish choice, but a deliberate one. It was a spiteful act of defiance, as if getting frostbite would somehow make the endless winter melt into spring.

It was at that point that Alphinaud found her, somewhere amidst the sulking and shivering. Her usually sharp senses were dulled by the cold and failed her, causing her to startle slightly when his voice suddenly spoke: 

"You look cold." 

Alphinaud looked up at her with an impassive expression. He seemed rather warm himself, all bundled up in a coat clearly made for someone much taller. Unlike him, Poppy had rejected all the coats forced on her, too offended by how she drowned in them like a child. Frankly, she was surprised that her equally stubborn companion suddenly had the sense to dress for the weather.

Poppy regarded him with a flat state for a moment before she noticed the bundle he held against his chest. She offered little more than a halfhearted grunt and tore her gaze away to continue staring at the gates, tail flicking behind her with open agitation.

"Glad to know you still have eyes," she retorted without looking back at him. She heard a breath that sounded more like a scoff and the crunch of snow beneath boots as he stepped closer.

"It wouldn't do for Hydaelyn's champion to finally be bested by something so mundane as the cold," Alphinaud said lightly, ignoring her comment.

His tone was a bit tart in an attempt at humor, but Poppy frowned when she heard it. It was more of an insult than anything to call her that then when she felt so utterly abandoned. The Mother Crystal's name just felt like a knife in her gut. 

"What's it matter?" she muttered in reply. "Let Hydaelyn take her champion back."

There was a pause and Poppy swore she could almost hear Alphinaud roll his eyes in that moment.

"I see you haven't lost your flair for the dramatic in the slightest," he said tightly, words a bit too clipped to be considered polite.

Poppy let out a chuckle of detached amusement and curled in on herself, huddling against her knees to stop the shivering. "Oh, I'm dramatic? I'm not the one who wanted to give up and throw myself at the Syndicate's feet the minute we got to this godsdamned place."

The words slipped out before she realized her cruelty. When she looked back at him, Alphinaud seemed wounded. He mirrored her frown as he placed the bundle on the stone ledge and hesitated for a moment, looking ready to leave. Poppy had expected -- hoped, rather -- that he would fling another barb back at her so they might bicker as they used to. Those days never felt more far away. 

Poppy sighed. For a moment she simply watched the cloud her breath made rise up and mingle with flakes of snow. When she stood she gritted her teeth and finally realized she was so cold that her body ached. She slid down the rampart rather carelessly and crept onto the parapet of the walkway right near the bundle Alphinaud offered. When she was close enough, she realized it was a woolen blanket rather than another ill-fitting coat. The thoughtfulness of the gesture touched her a bit. 

"Sorry," she murmured, ears flicking back with shame.

"No need to apologize," Alphinaud said quietly as he fidgeted with the oversized cuffs of his coat. He brightened a bit when she draped the heavy blanket over her shoulders. "It has been a trying time for us all as of late."

 _All of who?_ she wanted to ask, but bit her tongue instead. It was just the two of them and Tataru, after all. Poppy tried her hardest to resume her vigil over the gates, but it did little to stop the bile that rose in her throat. She closed her eyes. Looking at all the snow and the people just made her sick.

Her heart keened loudly for Thanalan. She longed for the sun, for the sands, for the warmth, but only vivid memories of that fated night in Ul'dah played across the backs of her eyelids like apparitions that mocked her. She saw the Sultana's lifeless body and felt the stinging humiliation of Ilberd's betrayal and heard the sound of the tunnels collapsing behind her after the Scions urged her to run.

Warmth finally found her, and it wasn't because of the blanket. The back of her throat burned and there was a dull sting behind her eyes, but she pushed the thoughts down, shoving them deep inside herself until they settled in her belly like a hot coal.

The long silence that passed between her and Alphinaud was filled only with the sound of icy wind whipping past them. As if reading her thoughts, he spoke after a while, voice trembling a bit, "I find myself often wondering what would have happened to us if Alisaie had not sent that merchant our way..."

He trailed off, sounding like he didn't actually want to know, but Poppy could fill in the blanks. They likely would be rotting in some gaol at Raubahn's side or worse, six fulms beneath the Saint Adama Landama lichyard. For whatever reason, thinking of those possibilities wasn't what drove another knife into Poppy's gut; it was hearing Alisaie's name.

Though what felt like an age had passed since they saw each other last, Poppy clearly remembered how Alisaie looked on the day they parted ways. She was all smiles and relief with determination clinging to her words when she spoke: " _When next we meet, I promise I will not disappoint you."_

Poppy wondered what Alisaie would think of her if she saw her then, a fool fallen from grace sulking in the snow. Her face burned with shame at the thought.

"Have you sent word to her about...everything?" Poppy glanced back at Alphinaud to see him shake his head.

"I haven't. I thought it best to remain silent for a time, as our communications are likely still compromised."  

"You should," Poppy said, nearly cutting him off. "We owe her our lives." 

Alphinaud's brow furrowed for a moment, giving him that distinct, familiar look that came before a rebuttal. He nodded instead, shaking loose several flakes of snow that had blended into his equally snowy hair. "I will, at the earliest opportunity," he promised. "Perhaps when we reach Ishgard." 

Poppy scoffed at that. " _If_ we reach Ishgard," she corrected. They'd spent nearly a moon holed up in the camp. She'd quickly learned that birch syrup dripped down a frozen tree trunk faster than Ishgardian politics moved.

Alphinaud stared out at the Coerthan landscape, saying nothing. His expression was a mask of grim solemnity as he likely considered the harsh nature of their position. "Lord Haurchefant is expecting to hear word back today, if I recall correctly," he said after a while, sounding cautiously hopeful. 

Poppy hummed thoughtfully. Though she wasn't thrilled about the prospect of entering a frigid city filled with equally frigid people embroiled in a thousand year war, she was eager to move on and do _something_ rather than waste away at Camp Dragonhead. Alphinaud's words admittedly allowed a small blossom of hope to bloom amidst her despair.

When she stood up on the perch she'd been crouching on, her knees cracked painfully and the blanket draped around her shoulders unfurled behind her, billowing in the wind like the cape of an ill-fated queen. Again, she found herself thinking about Alisaie's determination and suddenly, she was tired of feeling sorry for herself.

"Well, let's go see if these Ishgardians think we're worthy enough for their city," Poppy said, hopping off the parapet to stand next to Alphinaud. She flashed him a small smile and was relieved when he returned it, no matter how unsure he looked. It was a far cry from his usual grating confidence, but it would do for now. 

Poppy lead the way down the steps. When they were about halfway across the courtyard, she realized she hadn't stopped thinking about Alisaie. Even as she blinked past the snowflakes that threatened to blind her, she could clearly see her smiling face. The memory made her chest ache and a feeling she didn't wholly understand wriggled around her insides.

Poppy pulled the blanket tightly around her shoulders. She vowed that she would dig herself out of the hole she found herself in. She would go to Ishgard and play their games, if that's what it took. She would become stronger and make each any every bastard who betrayed her pay and find every Scion they'd lost. She would become someone worthy of admiration. Then, when she and Alisaie met again, she would thank her.

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> i've been thinking about HW a lot lately and how it was poppy's lowest point. i wanted to elaborate on how alisaie fit in there for her and also how her friendship with alphinaud started to evolve too. plus i just really like writing ARR poppy. she's such a little shit. i had this mental image of her brooding like a dumb gargoyle in the snow and somehow a whole drabble came out of it.
> 
> (also if you want more context on ali and poppy's ARR shenanigans you can check out my other fic _a blade in the dark_ )


	9. treasure hunter

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> Poppy takes great joy in hunting for treasure (or more accurately in this case: robbing graves)  
> Takes place during 4.1

It was her final day in the infirmary and Alisaie couldn't have been happier. She was so unbelievably weary from all the poking and the prodding and the unnecessary fussing that came with being a patient there. It was all thanks to her dear and worrisome brother, of course, who had insisted that she stay and not lift a finger until her wound had fully healed—which, in her not so expert opinion, had already been well over a moon ago. During the chirurgeon's thorough examination earlier that day, she'd been informed that her condition was vastly improved and she could return to her usual duties (given that she not push herself overmuch, but Alisaie was wont to forget that bit). She was truly overjoyed, especially knowing that Alphinaud wouldn't be able to argue the word of an actual expert.

Alisaie collected the few belongings she'd dragged in from her room during her prolonged stay as she tidied the sheets pulled across her cot. There were a few books on aetherlogy and red magic, her journal, several quills and jars of ink, as well as her rapier which she painstakingly hid beneath the bed to sneak in a few light drills when no prying eyes were watching. She placed everything aside from the sword in her knapsack and hurried the process of cleaning up along, practically bursting at the seams with pent up energy. There was much to be done since Ala Mhigo's liberation and she hadn't had a hand in helping out with anything yet. She was more than eager to throw herself headfirst into _something_.

With the bed taken care of, Alisaie looked up just in time to see Poppy pass beneath the arches that marked the entrance of the infirmary. A smile quirked her lips at the sight of the other woman who she hadn't seen in a few sun's time. More than anything, truthfully, she'd missed the little jaunts and adventures the Warrior always dragged her into and hoped she might have some exciting task for her to join in on.

When Alisaie caught her attention and waved the Miqo'te over, she realized that Poppy must have only just returned from an adventure of her own given how bedraggled she looked. Mud caked her boots and was smeared across her face and she was covered in a fine layer of dust, as if she'd just trudged across the entirety of Gyr Abania on foot. When she got close enough, Alisaie also noticed the faint scratches and bruises that trailed up her arms and explained her arrival at the infirmary. She would have been concerned at the sight, but the feeling died when she saw how cheerful the other woman looked. 

"You're looking well, dearest," Poppy practically chirped as she approached the cot. She leaned over the bed just as Alisaie moved to drape her folded blanket across it and planted a feather-light peck on her cheek in greeting.

Alisaie felt her face flush a bit from the the endearment and the gesture. She was still adjusting to such open displays of affection, having not expected the Warrior to be so doting a partner. Still, she smiled despite herself at the fluttering in her chest when she caught the other woman's smile, though she made sure to pointedly brush the specks of dirt off the sheet that had fallen from Poppy's clothing.

"I should hope so," Alisaie replied, making sure to sound triumphant. "I've finally been discharged." 

Poppy looked delighted by the news. "About time. Gods, I was staring to think they'd keep you here forever," she said and paused to grin. "I'll have to warn the rest of the Reach that you're on the loose again."

Alisaie smirked and moved around the cot to stand before the Warrior. "Before you run off to do that, tell me—what sort of trouble have you gotten into this time? You seem quite pleased with yourself," she said, noting the decidedly smug aura that surrounded her partner which was more potent than usual.

"Oh, me? Just got back from hunting down some treasure," Poppy said a bit coyly. She had a self-satisfied sort of gleam in her eyes when she plopped down on the chair beside the cot.

Alisaie's interest was piqued, but she made sure to look unimpressed as she leaned back against the bed. "Is that so? I would have guessed that you just took a dust bath with the chocobos."

"It was incredible! Me, Alphy, and Arenvald found the—hey, that's rude." Poppy cut herself off to pout at the comment and pinched Alisaie's knee, who simply chuckled at the retaliation. She cleared her throat in a rather dramatic and loud way before she continued, "Like I was saying, the three of us found that mad Ala Mhigan king's treasure. The old bastard was loaded! We've got enough gold and fancy shite to fund whatever the Resistance wants for years."

Alisaie's brows shot up in surprise. "Truly? How much treasure are we talking about, exactly?" 

"A whole bloody room full! A _big_ room. We had to to come back here just to send a team back to get it all," she replied excitedly as she brushed some of the dust off of her lap. "Had to fight a bunch of nasty ghouls and ghosts for it too, so it was a well earned bounty."

Alisaie watched Poppy pick some clumps of dirt from her tail and didn't doubt her claim at all with how battered she looked. "A moment—ghosts? And you said _Alphinaud_ went with you?" she asked, genuinely surprised, though she smirked when she thought of how her brother quailed at the mere mention of the otherworldly. "How I would have loved to witness  _that_."

Poppy rocked back in the chair and grinned. "It's really a shame that I didn't get to hear his screams. We split up and raced to see who'd find the treasure first," she said and paused her preening to sneer. "I won, of course."

"Naturally," Alisaie said and rolled her eyes at the self-satisfied Warrior. Admittedly, even despite the smugness, she was relieved to see the other woman so happy again after how she suffered during the war, and couldn't help the fond smile that tugged at her lips. "It seems that I've missed out on quite a bit of excitement during my forced bed rest," she said, feeling a pang of jealousy. She hoped Alphinaud had at least quelled his fears for long enough to appreciate the outing.

"I'll make sure to invite you next time I go rob a dead king's tomb," Poppy said and somehow managed to sound reassuring despite the absurdity of the promise. "Oh, that reminds me. I have something for you." The Warrior stood from her seat and Alisaie watched as she began to dig in the pockets of her skirt. Her face lit up when she seemed to find her prize. "Let me see your hand," she said and held out her own. 

Alisaie relented with a bit of amused apprehention, half expecting Poppy to slap a fistful of dirt into her palm. She was stunned when the Warrior removed a bracelet from her pocket and clasped it around her wrist without another word. It was made of an ornate gold chain that connected together several golden flowers studded with red gems. Alisaie wasn't usually one for finery, but even she could appreciate the beauty of the piece. She lifted her hand to get a closer look and admired the way the sunlight made it sparkle.

"For me?" she asked in disbelief, to which Poppy nodded.

"Do you like it?" she asked in return, sounding almost shy. 

"Of course. It's beautiful," Alisaie replied a bit breathlessly. "Thank you. Though I'm afraid I don't have anything to give you in return," she said, feeling guilty.

"Oh, don't worry about that." Poppy stepped forward to place a hand on her arm. "Just seeing you well is enough for me."

The frustration of being bedridden for moons seemed to melt away in an instant. Alisaie lost herself in the glow of receiving such a precious gift from her partner. She felt the warmth of Poppy's relieved smile and the fluttering feeling returned to her chest before a realization clicked into place and tore her from the moment. 

"Wait," she said and squinted down at the bracelet. When she looked back up at a confused Poppy, her suspicions were confirmed when she finally noticed the earrings, necklace, and rings she wore—all of which were just as ornate as the bracelet. "Where did you get this?"

Poppy retracted her hand to cross her arms and looked off to the side nervously as if she'd been caught red-handed, which only cemented her guilt. "W-well, you know," she stammered and gulped when she noticed Alisaie's hard stare. "I...might've skimmed a few things off the top of the treasure pile."

" _Poppy_ —"

"What? I think I deserve a little reward for all the hard work I did." 

"That's _stealing_."

"Can you really steal from a dead man? I don't think he'll miss any of it."

"That's not the point," Alisaie said as she pinched the bridge of her nose. She was relieved that the infirmary was at least mostly clear and none were around to hear their Warrior of Light openly admit to robbing the grave of Ala Mhigan royalty for her own ends. "You said the treasure you found was for the Resistance." 

"And?" 

"Twelve above—that would mean you're stealing from _them_. What would Lyse say?"

Poppy pouted at that. "She'd say _hey, those earrings match your daggers, looks great, you should k_ _eep them_ ," she muttered in what apparently was her impression of Lyse, which wasn't very convincing.

Alisaie sighed when she realized that was most likely true. The Warrior and the leader of the Resistance were two (often boneheaded) peas in a pod, after all. "Regardless, you really should turn it all in."

"Do I really have to?" Poppy asked, perhaps sounding and looking more petulant than intended with her puffed out cheeks and whiny tone. Alisaie had to bite her tongue to stop herself from bemusedly accusing her of acting like a baby.

"The coin earned from these trinkets will serve to pave the way for Ala Mhigo's future and aid those left after the war. Is that not better than simply wearing them?"

In the silence that stretched between them, Alisaie watched a parade of emotions play across the other woman's face as she probably tried to think of suitable excuses. Poppy eventually relented with a sigh, ears flicking sideways. "Fine, fine. You're right. I'll give it all back," she said. She paused to flash Alisaie a defeated look and gestured towards her hand. " _That_ too."

Alisaie had almost forgotten about the bracelet. She lifted her hand to admire it once more, feeling almost rueful at having to return the gift. It would be a shame for something so pretty to just be traded off for coin...She noticed how Poppy raised a brow at her hesitation.

"Hold a moment. There's no need to be too hasty—"

Poppy had already reached out to unclip the bracelet. She let out a gasp of mock offense at her words. "Alisaie Leveilleur, you horrible hypocrite," she tutted and dangled the trinket in front of her face as if to scold her.

"It was a merely a jest," Alisaie said with a huff. It really had been. Mostly. Poppy's sneer was still enough to make her face burn with indignation.

"For shame. What would Lyse say?" Poppy grinned from ear to ear as she began to back away, looking very pleased with herself at the comment.

Alisaie eyed her warily. "And just where are you going?" 

"To return all this," she said, trying to sound innocent despite the devilish look on her face. "And to let the whole Reach know there's a thief in our midst." The Warrior turned on her heel and began to walk away at a brisk pace, making for the exit of the infirmary. 

"Are you _really_ going to try to pin this on me?" Alisaie called out, but the other woman just sped up. "Poppy!"

Forgetting about her belongings, Alisaie sprinted after the Warrior. When Poppy glanced over her shoulder at the sound of footsteps, she looked alarmed to see the daggers being glared at her and broke out into a run. Alisaie apprehended her past rows of empty cots and reeled at the absurdity of the situation, caught somewhere between mild annoyance and utter amusement.

She soon closed in on Poppy, who was much to fast for her own good, and reached out to grab a fistful of the short cloak that billowed around her shoulders. Her feeling of triumph was short-lived when the Warrior skidded to a halt with a yelp before a table laid out with potions and ethers and careened right into it, dragging everything including Alisaie down with her. The resulting crash was likely heard by the entirety of the Reach. Alisaie suddenly found herself sprawled on top of her partner with an ocean of spilled concoctions and shattered glass scattered all around them. She blinked down at a bewildered Poppy. 

"Are you alright?" The Warrior asked, sounding concerned. 

Alisaie nodded. She was more stunned than anything else. "I'm fine," she replied.

Seeing that she was unharmed, Poppy's worry melted into amusement and she tossed her head back to let out a hearty laugh. Alisaie couldn't help but laugh along at the pure chaos her afternoon had turned into. All for some silly jewelry.

"What in the Seven Hells is going on here?!"

The two women's mirth was quickly cut short. Both their jaws snapped shut at the same time as they sheepishly looked up to see a very peeved Orella peer down at them. The head chirurgeon didn't look as amused by the mess as they were.

 

* * *

 

It was Alisaie's last day in the infirmary. Or at least it _had_ been until Poppy's little stunt earned her an extra couple of days in her cot. Orella had tersely explained that her wound reopened during her fall, though she couldn't help but feel that her condition had been exaggerated to punish her with an extended stay. She supposed she fared better than Poppy, who was banned from the infirmary unless she was "literally bleeding out and dying" as per the irate chirurgeon's exact words.

Resigned to her fate, Alisaie flopped back against her pillow with a sigh, thinking about how she'd box Poppy's ears off the next time she saw her. Unfortunately for her, she didn't get much time to seethe before a voice whispered from somewhere above her:

"Alisaie! Up here."

Alisaie looked up to see none other than the Warrior herself lean over the edge of the window several fulms above the cot. She couldn't fathom how she'd managed to climb up that high from the outside. Regardless, she pouted up at the other woman from her where she lay.

"Come to get me in more trouble, have you?" Alisaie asked tartly. "You'd best leave before Orella sees you here."

Poppy folded her arms on the windowsill and grinned down at her in that fearless way of hers. "I'm not afraid of her," she said, but her eyes betrayed her when they darted up to survey the infirmary. Seeing that the coast was clear, she looked back down at Alisaie with a softer smile. She hesitated for a moment before she added, "Besides, I came to apologize."

"Oh? Whatever for?" Alisaie's words were curt and she crossed her arms over her chest to further punctuate her annoyance. 

Upon hearing her biting sarcasm, the Warrior's brows drew together. "For causing a scene," she replied and shot her a guilty look. 

"You also did try to blame me for your blatant grave robbery," Alisaie pointed out. Her tone softened with a bit of humor at Poppy's sullen expression despite her best efforts to scold her. 

Poppy sighed. "Sorry about that too. I just..." She trailed off for a moment and looked to the side, resting a chin on her palm. "I was excited about finding treasure and got carried away. It felt like the old days for a while, like before things got so...complicated and hard."

Alisaie's mood sobered slightly at that. She sat up and then moved to stand up on the cot so she could be face to face with Poppy, where she was just barely able to rest her elbows on the windowsill. She glanced outside and bemusedly realized that the other woman stood on a makeshift ladder of stacked crates. 

"It's alright," she said softly and smiled when Poppy looked back at her. 

"Are you hurt again?" Poppy asked, sounding worried.

Alisaie scoffed. "Not at all. Just sore, really. It's nothing so serious as to warrant more than another sun or two in this prison." 

Seeing her smirk, Poppy relaxed enough to smile again. An almost mischievous glint returned to her eyes. "Well, I brought something to make up for all the trouble." The Warrior held up a hand to stop any protests when she noticed how baffled Alisaie looked to see her retrieve the very same bracelet from earlier out of her pocket. "Before you say anything, it was all Lyse. She _insisted_ I keep it. Said some garbage about it being romantic." 

Alisaie could do little more than shake her head in disbelief when Poppy clipped the bracelet around her wrist once more. The little trinket had caused quite a bit of trouble, but she supposed it was worth it. She decided it looked even prettier in the waning light of sunset.

"You're ridiculous," Alisaie said quietly, unable to hide the fondness in her voice. "Thank you."

Before Poppy could reply, Alisaie leaned forward as far as she could to steal a kiss. The other woman's lips were soft and pliant against hers and she felt the smile that bloomed across them. The Warrior's hand reached out, fingertips brushing against her cheek and her ear and then tangling into the hair at the base of her neck to deepen the kiss in a way that made Alisaie feel breathless.

They stood like that for a long moment with her up on the cot and Poppy balanced on the crates, kissing through the window like a pair of forlorn lovers from a storybook who were forbidden from meeting. It really was silly and perhaps a bit foolish, but it made Alisaie feel fluttery inside all the same. 

"I thought I told you to stay out," a booming voice from inside the infirmary called out. "Unless you're dying, I don't want to see you in here."

The moment was shattered in an instant, just like the potion bottles that they painstakingly cleaned off of the floor earlier. Poppy was startled enough that she almost tumbled backwards off the stack of crates. Alisaie looked over her shoulder to confirm that they'd, of course, been caught by none other than Orella herself. The chirurgeon placed her hands on her hips and tapped her foot impatiently as she stared up at the Warrior.

"I'm not technically inside _._ Besides, I was _dying_ to see Alisaie," Poppy said and flashed the Highlander a sweet and innocent smile. Orella looked unimpressed. 

"Shoo, you pest. Quit harassing my patient," the chirurgeon deadpanned. She waved a hand at the Miqo'te as if she were little more than a bothersome stray. 

Poppy pouted, but leaned forward for one last quick and defiant peck from Alisaie before she relented to Orella's order. "Rest well, dearest. I'll be back to rescue you!"

With that, the Warrior grinned and stepped backwards to hop to the ground before Alisaie watched her bound across the Reach. She heard the chirurgeon sigh behind her. 

"Going against my orders. Getting your feet all over my sheets. Arranging clandestine meetings with your sweetheart. No shame at all," Orella chided her from the foot of the bed. 

Alisaie quickly sat back down, face warm with embarrassment. "Pray forgive my indiscretions," she apologized. 

Orella shook her head and Alisaie saw her face soften with a smile. "I just came to say that you can leave in the morning," she said. "Unless, of course, you want to stay longer and play damsel in distress for that doting Warrior of yours."

Alisaie felt her face grow even warmer at the sight of the chirurgeon's smirk. "That won't be necessary," she said after clearing her throat. 

"Thought so. Now stay put without moving so much. I'll be back to redo your bandages in a bit." Orella turned away from the cot with a final sigh and added more to herself, "What a handful."

Alisaie watched her cross the infirmary to tend to her other patients and wondered who the handful was in that case. It was likely both of them, but she couldn't help but think of Poppy in particular. She smirked and traced the outline of one of the golden flowers on her ill-gotten bracelet.

Handful indeed. But _her_ handful, Alisaie thought with much fondness.

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> just some cute girlfriends being silly. i wanted to write something sweet and lighthearted and i figured i should probably squeeze it in now since 4.4 is probably going to kick my entire ass and send me into a spiral of angst fics.


	10. unbearable

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> Sometimes, things are unbearable. Sometimes, you find a way to get through.  
> Takes place shortly after 4.4
> 
> (ps. slightly spicy and angsty kissing ahead)

The Solar was quiet. 

The disconnecting _click_ of the linkpearl echoed in her ear for a moment before it was replaced by a silence that was stifling in its weight. Perhaps that was why Alisaie paced—to create some sort of noise to distract herself from the ghost of the conversation that replayed itself in her mind. The sound of her boots tapping against stone offered little relief.

"No luck?"

Poppy's question pulled Alisaie from her thoughts. "I'm afraid not," she said with a shake of her head. "It was the same answer as most of the others—the topic is simply beyond their ken." 

A subtle frown tugged at Poppy's lips, but she nodded and wordlessly reached across the desk to cross the name off their dwindling list. Another dead end.

"Well, at least the Sons of Saint Coinach said they'd send some of theirs in the morning," she said as she squinted at the piece of parchment. "That's something."

The Warrior flashed her a hopeful little smile and, despite how frail it looked, Alisaie returned it. She was right. It was _something_ , and enough to feel like they'd at least made some progress in aiding their fallen friends—enough to give her some small shred of hope to cling to. She made her way back to the desk, where Poppy resumed scouring the tome she was hunched over.

Alisaie's gaze flitted over the mess they'd made. There were scattered books, sheets of parchment, pens, jars of ink, and long-tepid cups of coffee that F'lhaminn had made for them that morning. She'd raised a brow when Alisaie asked for it instead of the usual tea, but complied without question, likely having noticed the pair's weariness.

She sifted through the clutter to reach the sheet of contact information that was just as messy as the desk it sat on, with lines drawn through names and notes written in the margins containing suggestions on who to reach out to next. Despite the wealth of connections the Scions had garnered over the years thanks to her grandfather and Minfilia, their options diminished by the day.

Alisaie chewed on the edge of her thumb as she scanned the list, then placed it back down with a sigh and undid the buckles of her coat so she could shrug it off. Perhaps it was the stones that trapped in the heat of the hearth or perhaps it was the damnable silence that amplified the pang of despair that tore through her—no matter the reason, she felt stifled again. Alisaie hung the coat from the back of her chair before she let herself slump onto it.

She glanced at Poppy, who sat cross-legged beside her with an elbow propped up on one knee while her other hand fiddled with a pen. The page she stared at likely held something of interest, as she scowled down at it with a furrowed brow and popped the end of the pen into her mouth to dogear the corner. Despite their circumstances, Alisaie was still amused by the sight.

"It's rather disarming seeing you with your nose buried in a book," she said. A thin, nearly wry smile tugged at her lips. "I thought you hated reading."

"Oh, I do," Poppy replied in a tone that would have been droll, had her voice not been pulled taut as a bowstring from exhaustion. She paused and made a sound that landed somewhere between a scoff and a sigh. "But this isn't a problem I can solve with my daggers."

The short-lived humor of the conversation vanished when Alisaie caught sight of her partner's frown. She shifted her attention away to pick at the hem of her skirt and think.

Unlike when Alphinaud first left, Poppy dropped all pretense from the start and hadn't left the Rising Stones once since the horrific events that befell the Scions. Some small, selfish part of Alisaie was glad for her prolonged company, but guilt brushed against her sharply at the thought and clung to her like a stubborn little burr.

"You needn't stay here if there are other tasks that require your attention," she said, voice quiet and almost meek. She hoped it was enough to free Poppy of her perceived burden if she truly wished to leave.

"You shouldn't have to do all this alone," Poppy shot back in an instant, sounding as stubborn as a burr herself. "Besides, nothing's more important than this right now."

Despite the obvious exhaustion, she still managed to flash a determined smile before her attention dutifully returned to the book. It gave Alisaie enough strength to resume her own work.

Both she and Poppy had pulled their chairs to the side of the desk, having silently agreed that it felt wrong to sit where their previous Antecedent sat. Still, as Alisaie reached for the drawer, she hesitated and felt as though she desecrated a grave when she pulled it open. She focused instead on the sensation of blank parchment between her fingers and the weight of the quill in her hand as she began to pen a letter to one of the few promising contacts left on their list.

It didn't take long for her eyes to blur from weariness. Her attention faltered, and she found her gaze wander back to the Warrior. She was surprised to see that Poppy's eyes were closed and an expression that looked pained was pulled across her face. When she noticed the subtle tremble of her hands, Alisaie reached out to touch her knee. She brushed a thumb across it to wordlessly express her worry.

The sensation seemed to snap Poppy from her stupor. She offered another frail smile, but Alisaie could see the cracks form on her facade. "Just need some air. Be back in a minute," she said as she stood. She wobbled a bit when she made for the door.

Alisaie looked after her, unable to say anything before the door clicked shut abruptly, and was left alone in silence. She let the Warrior have her space despite how difficult it was when unease settled in her gut like a rock, but she pushed the feeling down to instead focus on the letter for a while. The pen seemed to do the talking on its own, while she simply guided it to form sentences more coherent than she thought herself able to write.

By the time the letter was done, half a bell had passed. She hesitated for a while, but Alisaie could no longer ignore the nagging worry that pricked at her like a thorn, and so she stood from the desk to see where her partner had wandered off to for so long.

She emerged to the main hall of the Rising Stones, which was no less silent than the Solar. Many of the remaining Scions had left to enact Thancred's plan, and others went to hand-deliver letters and contact experts in person, while the rest were likely asleep, as the night had long grown old. Aside from flickering candlelight and the sound of her boots that echoed far louder than before, Alisaie was alone—or at least she thought so until she caught sight of a figure slumped in a chair in the far corner of the room.

The other woman's face was shielded from view, but Alisaie recognized her in an instant. She froze in place and stared wide-eyed for a moment as she watched Poppy run her fingers through her hair and press against her forehead. She remembered suddenly and very vividly the horrible headaches that had her doubled over in agony and threatened to tear her head apart. In a blind panic, Alisaie rushed across the room and grasped the Warrior's shoulders when she was within reach.

"Is aught amiss? Are you in pain?" she asked, unable to hold back the raw fear that gripped her.

Poppy's head snapped up. She stared at her in an almost owlish way, clearly surprised by the sudden intrusion. Her eyes were puffy and reddened as if she'd been crying, and the sight made Alisaie's grip go slack.

"No, no. I'm fine. I just..." Poppy trailed off, voice weak. She swallowed thickly and averted her gaze, leaning back to free herself from Alisaie's grasp so she could rub her face. "I'm sorry."

The whispered apology seeped through her fingers and stuck in the air between them like a fine wisp of smoke. Alisaie said nothing, but retracted her hands to give the other woman space. She felt relief and worry and confusion all at once, but struggled to give voice to the thoughts that tumbled uselessly in her mind. Silence stretched between them, but Poppy eventually dropped her hands from her face to speak again.

"I'm supposed to be giving you my full support. I should be stronger than this." Her voice was cracked and harsh, like the sharp end of a broken crystal. She glared off to the side with a cool sort of anger that Alisaie knew was directed at herself.

Not knowing what else to do, she knelt before the Warrior. The stones beneath her were surprisingly frigid, biting into her knees with their incessant coldness. Alisaie ignored the discomfort and leaned forward as she tried to get a better look at the other woman's face. Poppy was as stubborn as ever and kept her eyes averted, looking at the fabric of the armchair with such intensity, as if it held the cure to their friends' mysterious ailment.

"You've offered me nothing but support. Clearly more so than you even realize," Alisaie said with a bit more sharpness than intended. Tentatively, she reached out and took Poppy's hands in her own. "This burden is neither of ours to shoulder alone. We have the remaining Scions and we have each other." Her voice grew soft at the edges, and she had to pause to wet her lips as the rest of what she wanted to say struggled to come out, "You needn't pretend for me. I'm terrified too."

Upon hearing the quiet admittance, Poppy finally looked at her. Her expression was hard to place, but she squeezed Alisaie's hands in return before she tugged at them, pulling her from where she knelt to urge her up onto the chair. She slid easily onto Poppy's lap without hesitation or second thought.

Had it been a different time, she would've been scandalized by such a blatantly intimate display, or joked about how they would be caught and teased by their companions to no end. The Rising Stones was far too quiet and far too devoid of life for such jests to hold any merit. Alisaie said nothing, and instead reached out to place her hands on the Warrior's shoulders. Only the faint sound of fabrics that barely brushed together filled the space between them.

The contact seemed to break whatever faltering composure Poppy held onto. She reached out in return, hands grazing against Alisaie's sides before they wrapped around her waist and pulled her closer so that their bodies were flush. She buried her face into Alisaie's shoulder and exhaled several shuddering breaths. The warmth of them bloomed across her skin even through the thick cotton of her shirt. She wrapped her arms around Poppy's neck and pressed a cheek against the side of her head, nuzzling into the soft copper of her hair.

For a while, they were silent. The Rising Stones seemed to heave a weary sigh around them to fill the void.

"How could I let this happen again?"

Poppy's words were so very quiet, but Alisaie still heard them and felt the way she trembled against her at their utterance. A hundred and a half rebuttals flew to her lips at once, but she swallowed them down as they came to her. There was no point in saying things like  _it's not your fault_ or _you couldn't have prevented this_ , no matter how true they were—Poppy wouldn't hear them.

Alisaie could never fathom why the Warrior always insisted on shouldering the blame, but she hadn't been there when the Waking Sands was ambushed or on that fated night in Ul'dah when everything fell apart. She understood then, finally, what it was that Poppy must have felt, having witnessed her comrades collapse before her very eyes—it was a guilt and helplessness that were unbearably crushing in their weight.

"We're going to fix this," she said, whispering into Poppy's hair, trying desperately to convey at least a small scrap of determination.

The other woman remained silent. Only the slight shift of her ears and the tightened grip of her arms indicated that she heard. After a while, she lifted her face from Alisaie's shoulder to look up at her.

"I want to take you to the Azim Steppe," she said, voice slightly hoarse, and Alisaie could feel the warmth of her breath on her cheek from how close she was. "You said you've always wanted to go."

Despite everything, Alisaie managed a smile and wondered what had prompted the sudden thought. "Perhaps sometime soon," she replied. "We can get away, just the two of us."

"We could go right now," Poppy said in a hushed tone that sounded almost desperate. She stared up at her with a wide-eyed, hopeful sort of look, though the shimmering green of her irises only exaggerated the red-rimmed outlines, as if she held back more tears.

Alisaie stared back at the Warrior, feeling a stab of sadness. She knew the other woman well enough to realize exactly what she was doing: she tried to offer a distraction. It was something small and fleeting to help ease the ache and pass the time, just as she had tried to do for her when Alphinaud first left.

"We can't," she replied with as much sternness as she could manage. _We can't run from this_ , she amended silently, but knew that part didn't have to be said out loud.

Poppy frowned, and Alisaie knew it would have been a pout had the situation been less solemn. She leaned forward to press a kiss against Alisaie's lips that was chaste in its softness. "Are you sure?" she asked quietly, eyes searching her face as if she hoped the gesture would somehow change her mind. She kissed Alisaie again for good measure, that time on the corner of her mouth, then peppered several more along her jaw. Each was slow and gentle and left a fleck of warmth in its wake.

"There's work to be done here," Alisaie said, but her resolve wavered when the Warrior's kisses came dangerously close to her ear. She closed her eyes and imagined the Steppe from the fragments of descriptions she'd heard from Poppy and read in books: endless plains of grass that billowed in the breeze like the sea, with an even more endless expanse of stars hanging just above it that looked close enough to touch. Alisaie steeled herself and shook her head, despite how tempting it was to give in. "We have friends to save."

Poppy let out a sad little hum at that. "I know. You're right," she whispered, slumping slightly against Alisaie as if in defeat. Still, she pressed a kiss against the base of her ear and then dragged her lips along its length in a deliberate sort of way. "Always quashing my fun, you are." It was meant to be a jest, but the words were frayed—tattered and torn at the edges like a discarded scrap of silk.

"Someone has to keep you in line," Alisaie murmured in reply, trying to play along despite how her voice cracked and a shuddering breath threatened to escape her.

Poppy hummed again against her ear, and the sound sent sparks down Alisaie's spine. She marveled at the Warrior's boldness when she lowered her head and nudged her way beneath the high collar of her shirt to reach the skin underneath, where her trail of kisses continued. A shaky breath finally left Alisaie at the sensation of lips that just barely grazed against her neck, and her grip on the other woman's shoulder's tightened. Poppy continued downward until she reached her shoulder, where she paused for a brief moment before Alisaie felt the quick nip of fangs against the edge of her collarbone.

The bite pulled a breathy laugh from her. When Poppy leaned back, Alisaie caught the glint of mischief that shone in her otherwise weary, saddened gaze and tugged at the corners of her mouth just so. It all but confirmed just how deliberate the action was—Poppy knew very well just how ticklish she could be.

Her partner wasn't done with her senseless teasing. Her head dipped back down to where her lips met the sensitive skin of Alisaie's neck with more intensity than before. She peppered her affections and didn't stop until her tongue darted out to taste Alisaie's fluttering pulse and then graze it with devilish teeth. She pulled away suddenly, looking very pleased with herself at the sharp breath she drew from Alisaie, who glowered in return.

The Warrior was clever in her vying for distraction. The shift in mood was rather bewildering in its abruptness, but not unwelcome, and Alisaie appreciated the fleeting moment of levity all the same. Though, for whatever reason, the warmth behind Poppy's subtle smirk made her remember very suddenly just how afraid she was.

Alisaie leaned forward and caught the other woman's lips in a kiss that was far less chaste than before, almost desperate in its urgency. The thought that either of them could be snatched away at any moment just as their fellow Scions had made icy fear creep through her veins like frost. She clung to the Warrior and refused to let go, as if that would root her in place and shield her from the machinations of whoever or whatever it was that conspired against them.

The sensation of their lips pressed together grounded her in reality and reminded Alisaie that she wasn't alone and that Poppy was still there. The subtle sharpness of fangs against her mouth further proved that. A silent gasp was drawn from her when her bottom lip was gently pressed between teeth, and the other woman moved against her with the same hunger she felt coil around her insides. Poppy parted her own lips to deepen their kiss to dizzying depths. 

Everything was soft and slow and purposeful, from how Poppy's hands pressed against her hips, and how she dragged her thumbs deftly beneath the hem of Alisaie's shirt to feel the gooseflesh on the skin underneath, to how her fingers trailed up the curve of her spine to tangle into her hair.

Onze by onze, the weight of their burdens fell away. It was nice, Alisaie realized, to not think for a moment and only to feel—to simply exist and be touched. So she let the Warrior kiss her until everything else melted away, until it was all distant and hazy like a bad dream that could be pushed aside until morning. And she kissed her back until nothing else existed but them on that chair surrounded only by the silent stones of their empty home.

"I don't know what I'd do without you."

Alisaie tasted the words on Poppy's breath as she spoke them against her lips. She recognized them, because those very same words had escaped her only a few suns prior, though it already felt like an epoch had passed since then. They were spoken in a moment of vulnerability when she could just barely hold herself together and had been so unbearably thankful to still have Poppy at her side after all that had happened—just as she felt then. She flushed at the realization that Poppy felt the same way.

Alisaie opened her eyes a fraction to find Poppy gaze back at her from beneath dark lashes. The look they exchanged spoke volumes in its fervor. Words formed and reformed in her mind, but nothing clicked into place properly, and she found herself mute. There was nothing she _could_  say, she realized, that would convey the depth of what she felt. So she contented herself with more kisses and spoke instead with her hands to wordlessly tell the other woman, _it'll be all right_. 

And it would be, because they had each other.

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> and sometimes you can't decide between writing about girls kissing or being sad so you do both. 
> 
> hey, remember how i said 4.4 would kick my entire ass? turns out i was right. :')


	11. unburdened and content

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> On loving a hero who's healing old wounds.  
> Takes place a year after Ala Mhigo's liberation (between 4.2 and 4.3?).

A pair of arms emerged from the dark and wound around Alisaie's waist. For a brief, fleeting moment, she panicked. Her hand instinctively reached for the hilt of the rapier that happened to not be on her belt for that one rare occasion. 

"Guess who?"

The question was caught between velvet and silk, a light rasp clinging to otherwise smooth words. The warmth of a familiar giggle danced against her neck, bringing with it the equally familiar scent of petals and spice that was also accompanied by a thread of rich wine. Alisaie relaxed.

"You're far too adept at cloaking yourself in shadow, my dear _Warrior of Light."_  

She made sure not to intone the surprise she'd briefly felt and the title was a sharp little knife when she spoke it—much like the ones its bearer often threw around without care. The other woman giggled again upon being unmasked. 

"Caught me," she replied in a rueful, singsong way. Poppy pulled Alisaie closer from behind and leaned forward to prop her chin on her shoulder. "Just wanted to see if my darling little _wallflower_ was enjoying herself."

The jab was gentle, edged only with as much sharpness as Alisaie had used. Still, she glanced sidelong in a petulant sort of way at the woman who used her as a headrest only to catch sight of bright eyes crinkled with a sweet, genuine smile. Alisaie couldn't help but smile in return as she found herself lean back into her love's embrace.

"I'm enjoying myself as much as I can during these sorts of things," she said, sounding droll. She crossed her arms and sighed lightly to punctuate her response.

Parties were never her preferred environment, but she'd learned to endure them in her own way by slipping to the darkened sidelines from time to time to catch her breath. It had been a long evening of speeches and pleasantries, though Ala Mhigans were at least a lively bunch and the celebration could hardly be considered stiff. Alisaie smiled again when she looked across the crowd and caught glimpses of her fellow Scions who mingled amongst members of the Resistance and leadership from the Eorzean city-states.

"Though, it is good to see everyone together again," she added quietly. A warm feeling of contentment tinged her words. The hum of agreement Poppy replied with held a similar warmth.

"It's been a while, hasn't it?" she asked.

Alisaie tilted her head as she thought of the night they were all together last. The memory was vivid despite being years old at that point, and replayed in her mind as if through the clear facets of an unaspected crystal.

Having defeated the Warriors of Darkness and collected their missing members, every Scion had crowded into the Solar of the Rising Stones in attendance of an impromptu meeting called by Alphinaud in order to decide the course of their future. It felt like an epoch ago, before their entanglement in the war, in a time when Lyse still counted herself among their ranks and before Papalymo—

Alisaie shook her head to clear the thoughts away. The motion helped combat the stab of sadness that suddenly slipped into her gut like a knife.

"It has," she said in agreement with the Warrior, quiet and just a bit somber. As if sensing her tension, the arms around Alisaie's waist tightened their embrace.

"Well, I can see you're clearly having the time of your life here, but..." Poppy's tone was teasing but still gentle, even after she trailed off, "Want to sneak away with me for a bit?"

The question, along with the puff of breath that came with it, pushed against Alisaie's neck and made the skin there prickle into gooseflesh. She turned her head, smirking at the sight of the playful twinkle in the other woman's eyes.

"Lead the way," she replied. She didn't bother with hesitation, having learned long ago that it was best to just play along with her love's mischief.

Poppy's arms released her. Her hand slid against Alisaie's not a breath later and their fingers tangled together, pulled taut as knots. She felt the other woman tug at her and grin in a wordless command to follow.

The Warrior lead her through the darkened edges of the ballroom with the silence expected of one whose multitude of titles included _the darkest shadow_. It was a marvel how she seemed to thread the ambient aether around them both to form a cloak of shielding darkness against any prying eyes. Alisaie smiled to herself. It was no wonder how easily the other woman often took her by surprise.

When they broke free of the confines of the celebration, Poppy let the shadows fall away. The palace opened up around them, all gold and buff marble and towering pillars that held up the lofty domed ceilings. Its beauty filled Alisaie with awe. She hadn't explored the massive place so thoroughly before, but noted how all previous manners of Garlemald had been expunged, replaced instead with rightful banners of rich purple and alabaster griffins.

The hoods of the Resistance were styled after the very same majestic beasts, beaks dipping down in respect towards the Warrior and her companion as they allowed the two women past their guard. A grand staircase was ascended, and Alisaie suspected she found herself on the famed Royal Menagerie when they emerged onto a grand terrace paved in ecru tile.

"Pretty, isn't it?"

They stepped towards the center of the garden still hand in hand, and Poppy's question broke through the prolonged silence of Alisaie's awe. That awe only grew at the sight of massive flowerbeds that swayed in chilled gusts of night air, painted in shades ranging from vermilion to rosy pink. When Poppy's hand slipped away from hers, it was replaced with a crisp coolness that made Alisaie miss her touch. She still nodded in agreement, eyes flicking over the flowers in quiet appreciation, though the Warrior spoke again before she could reply.

"This is where I fought him." Poppy moved towards the nearest plot and bent over to pluck a flower from its bed. There was a slowness to her motions, as if she feared the bloom would shatter at her touch. "A lot of things ended here," she added, words seeping quietly into the night.

Alisaie knew that Zenos met his end on the Menagerie, though she hadn't expected it to be a place so serene. That serenity didn't seem to reach Poppy fully. Something about her demeanor changed as she held the flower up. Her eyes narrowed, though more in deep thought than in anger. The sliver of moon that hung above them outlined her profile with a soft silvery glow and, though the light was scant, it still refracted off her eyes like a flicker of cold flame. Alisaie watched her, mulling over the words she spoke, eyes lingering on the jagged scar still visible beneath the chest wrappings of her sparse armor.

"Many things began here as well," she said. A determined little smile was offered to her companion in hopes of shaking off some of the heaviness that clung to her. "Ala Mhigo's unfettered future, for one."

Poppy met her gaze and let out a breath that seemed to lighten her burden. Her face cracked into a smile, and she nodded.

"I just didn't want this place to be soured, is all," she explained, sounding sheepish. She glanced down at the the flower that twirled between her fingertips. Its pink petals held fast to the stem despite the abuse. "It's too pretty for that. So, I brought you, because it can't be sour if there's memories of you here."

Alisaie huffed at the flattery, though a smile still tugged at the corner of her mouth just enough to betray her. Poppy caught sight of it in an instant and her own smile turned into a toothy grin. She shook her head as if to clear the cobwebs of dreary thoughts away and held a hand out to Alisaie.

"Enough talk. Dance with me?"

The question caught her off guard, as was likely evident by her gawping. The Warrior's grin only grew wider at her surprise, turning almost wolfish.

"I've been practicing," she added with a lilting note of pride, as if to entice her.

"I seem to recall this ending rather poorly the last time we tried it," Alisaie replied. The distant memory of their previous and only dance over the markets of Revenant's Toll that had them both tripping over one another left her feeling amused, if not a bit embarrassed.

"That so? _I_ recall it being a rousing success."

"You define success rather strangely, then," Alisaie said, words lightly pointed. She was inexplicably pulled closer to her beloved after a moment, having no true intention of saying no. "Though, if you insist, I'll indulge my dear Warrior. It would be rude not to, after all."

Alisaie reached for the hand extended towards her and was rewarded with perked up ears and a pleased smile, as well as a step that closed the gap of space between them. Poppy's other hand deftly tucked the flower she held into Alisaie's hair where it made its new bed just above her ear. She smirked at the gesture, though the gentleness of it filled her with warmth.

Poppy took both her hands in hers. Alisaie looked down at them, feeling calluses brush against her own, seeing scars stretch pale lines across olive skin. The Warrior's nails were filed down to minuscule points and lacquered a dusty petal pink that matched the flower she'd just held. The charming style of it suited her.

Alisaie remembered, suddenly, something her mother often said to scold her long ago, when she was but a young girl who had a bad habit of chewing on her nails while she read: _you can learn much about someone with just a glance at their fingernails (and thus you must needs care for your own)_. She'd never quite understood the meaning behind those words—not until certain keen observations she made about the Warrior.

She remembered long nails carved into menacing points on the eve of many a battle that were sharp enough to be considered knives in their own right. And she remembered nails splintered and shattered with blood caught underneath, sullied in conflicts won. She remembered still how in her darkest hours they were left overgrown and haloed by purplish bruises. Those were the hands of the Warrior, the soldier, the weapon. The hands that held hers then were her own, and bespoke contentment and peace.

She remembered, also, the scent of wine on Poppy's breath. It was there then as well, caught faintly between them in their closeness, rich and sweet. She thought of how the other woman quailed at the sight of a goblet and eyed opened bottles with obvious suspicion. Alisaie was surprised that she'd indulged, especially after having confided in her long ago about the fears that followed her after the night in Ul'dah, and the other at Falcon's Nest.

It clicked into place that the Warrior felt safe. Her myriad of wounds had begun to heal. The realization warmed Alisaie further.

"Ready?" Poppy asked, snapping her back to the present with amused impatience. "Or are you stalling?"

"I assure you that I'm not," Alisaie replied. She stiffened with a bit of embarrassment at her wandering thoughts. "Lead the way," she said for a second time that night, and knew her sneer likely made it sound more like a challenge.

The Warrior, of course, rose to that challenge in an instant. Their positions were sorted out, hands finding waists and shoulders and holding one another. And thus their dance began.

Alisaie thought it would be nigh impossible with no music to guide them, but Poppy managed. She pulled them both along with an ease that suggested she truly had practiced. Her movements were fluid, following the thrum of some unheard melody that steered her. Alisaie kept up through sheer determination alone, loathe to be outdone by her partner.

"You look a bit impressed," Poppy said after a while. She twirled them around with an effortless grace that was somehow tinged with smugness and made Alisaie roll her eyes.

"Quite. I'm _impressed_ you haven't tripped over me yet."

Poppy tutted her disapproval before a wicked grin lit up her face. She was clearly undeterred by the comment.

"Oho, but you haven't seen anything yet!"

Both her hands traveled to Alisaie's waist and wrapped around her back, pulling her closer before she was urged backwards again. The sudden movement caught her off guard. She half expected to be dropped to the ground, but the Warrior held tight, dipping her so low that her head brushed against the flowers beneath her. Alisaie stared up at her partner, silent with surprise, and instinctively wrapped her arms around her neck in fear of falling.

The ornate bits of gold sewn onto Poppy's formal battle garb glistened beneath the moon's half crescent and clinked together softly as she shifted to lean over. The sharp pauldron that jutted from her shoulder, the fearsome daggers that hung from her hips, the faded scars that cut across her cheek and lips—she looked every bit like the gilded hero of legend she was oft made out to be, and Alisaie couldn't help but be enchanted by the sight.

Poppy's smugness melted into satisfaction, then turned to something even softer. Her lips grazed against hers in a feather-light kiss, and Alisaie's breath was stolen. Her eyes fluttered closed and she gave herself over completely when a more firm kiss followed.

She was practically gasping when Poppy pulled away, and some distant part of her mind was impressed that the Warrior held such an uncomfortable position for so long. Poppy peered down at her sweetly from beneath long lashes. The florid sweetness of the blooms beneath her clouded Alisaie's already reeling mind.

"You—" Words failed her for a moment. She'd been completely disarmed. "You...you hopeless, senseless romantic. You were planning this all along, weren't you?"

The amorous moment was shattered when another grin broke across Poppy's face. She laughed at the accusation as she straightened her back, pulling Alisaie up with effortless ease.

"Caught me again. It's your own fault, though," Poppy chided in a singsong way and her eyes narrowed with mischief. "I love you enough to prance around like a fool, after all. Lucky you," she added, tail swishing behind her to punctuate her satisfaction.

Alisaie should have been more irritated at being briefly turned into a blushing, swooning maid, though no such feelings of contempt ever came. Only a warm fondness filled her, along with an amusement that pushed past her lips as a chuckle that Poppy shared in.

The Warrior released Alisaie from her grasp, but didn't back away. Their hands came together again in a wordless want for contact and they swayed, fingers twined and cheeks pressed together. It was a ghost of their previous dance, though more pleasant with the added closeness.

"I am lucky," Alisaie said after a while, quiet and assured. When Poppy chuckled again in reply, Alisaie felt the sound rumble against her. 

"I'm glad you think so."

There was a frailty and shyness behind the words that made Alisaie's heart stutter. She caught the faint thread of wine on the other woman's breath again, and felt the subtle sharpness of nails against her palms when she squeezed them, and her thoughts abruptly turned to the precariousness of it all. The state of the realm, their lives, their love—everything was so delicate.

It felt like madness, sometimes, to think of the breadth of her love for the Warrior. And it _was_ madness, for how could one fall in love with a whirling tempest, or the harsh crackle of a roaring fire, or the sharpened end of a freshly polished knife, or the light, blooming warmth of hope? It was a foolish notion to fall in love with intangible, fleeting things, but Alisaie was stubborn and ever content in that folly, because she knew that the Warrior of Light was no weapon cast in metal to be wielded, nor a statue carved of stone to be worshiped—she was but a woman of flesh and blood who loved just as deeply as she did.

Their love was foolish, perhaps, and it was terrifying. The feeling was fragile, caught between them like a little bird, its frantic wing beats not unlike the fluttering of their hearts. Yet in all its fragility, it also held an unfathomable strength. It was an act of defiance to love a hero, she knew, as it was to be a hero in love, but together they were both stronger for it.

"You're so quiet tonight," Poppy whispered, and Alisaie felt the warmth of her curious concern brush across her cheek. "A lot on your mind?"  

"Yes," Alisaie admitted. There was no point in lying, but she didn't know how to explain the thoughts that occupied her. "Just...thinking about things." 

Poppy hummed. It was a thoughtful little sound. She pulled back enough so Alisaie could see a face that was twisted into an unimpressed look.

"You think too much."

"Between the two of us, someone has to."

The jab pulled a pout onto Poppy's lips and Alisaie couldn't help but smirk.

"Seems like my wallflower is more of a _nettle_ ," Poppy said, speaking with as much sharpness as the plant she named. "Thinking is for politicians. We're the ones who fight," she reminded her pointedly. She sighed as if offended and moved backwards to step onto a flowerbed and pull Alisaie along with her. "Though, there's not much fighting to do for now. Guess all that's left to do is dance!" 

They were surrounded on all sides by flowers. Poppy took her hands again to spin them both around. Alisaie conceded, grinning as she gave in to her love's whims. A fondness filled her heart again that made her feel as resilient as the blooms that bent against their movements.

"I suppose I can't argue with that."

Alisaie loved her always, but loved her most as she was then—unburdened and content, twirling among petals, bathed in scant moonlight as she laughed. No titles, no duty, no pain. She was purely herself, and that was all who she needed to be.

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> hey remember when i said these would be _short_ drabbles? yeah me neither. (':
> 
> god this came out so sappy and lovey, but i can't help it!! i just love writing about love. i have a feeling that these poor girls are going to get put through the wringer in the coming patches so i figured i should write some feel-good stuff before shadowbringers inevitably rips my heart out.


	12. of the blooming blade

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> On titles and daggers and silly little sentiments.  
> Takes place some time around 4.2

"Do they _really_ call me that?"

The usual bustle of the Reach was distant. When Poppy laughed, the sound was loud and just a bit grating—almost like the gentle scratch of metal on stone that filled the meager space between her and Alisaie.

"I've heard it a handful of times," Alisaie confirmed with a nod. She smirked sidelong at the Warrior from her place seated beside her on the mat they shared. "Is it not to your liking?"

Poppy tilted her head, thinking for a moment as she silently tossed the title through her mind. "I like it," she decided. "It's just...more grand than what I've come to expect," she said as she dragged the length of her dagger against the surface of the sharpening stone. Several throwing knives and the sibling of the dagger she held sat neatly before her, all freshly sharpened and polished. She caught Alisaie glance at the arrangement from the corner of her eye. 

"Are you really so surprised? You can practically smell them from a malm away," Alisaie said, sounding both incredulous and amused. Poppy wrinkled her nose at that.

"Not true! I'd be shite at sneaking if that were the case." Poppy wagged the dagger at Alisaie in a bemused reprimand. The other woman shook her head and continued to wipe clean the rapier that sat across her lap. It glittered faintly even in the shade of their shared hideout by the stalls near the creek.

"I would hardly call anything you do sneaking _,_ " Alisaie retorted. "That usually involves _not_ announcing your presence before you even arrive by dousing yourself in floral oils."

Poppy paused her sharpening to make a strangled sound of disbelief. Alisaie let out an amused breath at her reaction that sounded more like a snort, to which the Warrior puffed out her cheeks. She heaved a dramatic sigh as she uncorked a bottle of the mentioned oil and sighed again when the potent scent of roses wafted up from her polishing rag. 

"A well-oiled blade is a well-cared for blade," she said rather matter-of-factly as she worked it across the metal. It was a saying beaten into her mind long ago by a blacksmith friend who'd quickly gotten tired of fixing knives rusted from overuse. "Mine just happen to smell nice to boot." 

"Nice enough to earn yourself such a florid title," Alisaie reminded her. Poppy sighed once more, finally conceding. Her partner wasn't wrong.

" _Poppy o_ _f the blooming blade_ ," she said the title out loud after a moment of silence, as if to cement it in reality. "Have to admit, it's got a nice ring to it."

After a final pass of the cloth, she held the dagger up. Its edge caught the harsh light of midday, glistening bright, almost as if aether-touched. The slim, sliver blade reflected scraps of a cloudless sky that peeked out from between the colorful banners that hung overhead. A patchwork of reds and oranges and blue danced across the surface until she tilted it just so to catch Alisaie's gaze on the mirrored shine.

"Really though, they should call me _of the shining blade_ instead," Poppy said in admiration of her own work before she flashed the other woman a satisfied grin.

"Yes, very impressive." Alisaie somehow managed to sound and look rather _unimpressed_ as she likely agreed only to humor her. Poppy lowered the blade to pout at the woman no longer reflected on its surface. Before she could remark her offense at the apparent disinterest, her companion continued, "Though, it seems to be missing something."

Poppy's brow arched, pulled up by her piqued curiosity. "Oh? Not flowery enough?" she asked, amused.

"It reeks of a bouquet, I assure you," Alisaie replied.

Her expression was guarded as she gestured for Poppy to hand her the dagger. It was with mild hesitation that the Warrior gave it over, having seen a glimmer of mischief in her partner's eyes that made her expect some sort of trickery. She watched with interest as Alisaie turned the blade in her hands in a seemingly thorough inspection. Then, to Poppy's surprise, she lifted the dagger to her lips to press a kiss against the jeweled pommel.

"For luck," she explained, tone caught somewhere between seriousness and amusement. Poppy chuckled at the sight.

"As if _I_ need luck," she said with an exaggerated lilt to play at being offended.

Poppy tilted her head to coyly glance up at Alisaie from beneath her lashes despite how the thoughtfulness of the gesture had warmed her. As if embarrassed, Alisaie's cheeks took on the faintest pink tinge. The dagger hovered near her face even as she glared.

"Well then, how about this instead: _May the wounds you inflict be fatal, dear Warrior_ ," she announced with all the gravity of an evoked blessing. Alisaie pressed her lips to the pommel once more, gentle but assured. Despite the teasing edge to the grandiose words and the smirk that curled her lips, she still managed to sound genuine, " _...so that you may return to me, always_."

In the final words of the whispered plea, the warmth of Alisaie's breath painted fog against the polished surface of the blade. Poppy watched, captivated, as she gingerly held it back out to her. Some unnamed feeling made the tips of her fingers burn as she accepted it and curled her hand around Alisaie's to press it against the hilt. For a moment, the dagger was held between them like a wordless promise made tangible and sharp.

"I will. _Always_."

Poppy lowered her head and loosened her grip just enough so she could graze her lips against Alisaie's knuckles. Her own whisper pulled fog onto the surface of the dagger just as Alisaie's had, giving weight to their shared words. The perfume of the rose oil hit her nose and she could practically taste the floral notes of it when she smiled.

"After all, my blade blooms only for you, my lady," she added with just a bit of a theatrical edge to her tone.

As she watched the Warrior, Alisaie's pale lashes fluttered slowly against the thin streams of sunlight that fell across them. The tips of her ears were dusted pink in her embarrassment and her nose wrinkled just enough to suggest a barb would soon roll off her tongue. But none came and she chuckled instead, light as the breeze that made the banners overhead billow.

"You needn't be so dramatic," Alisaie scolded gently.

"You started it." Poppy's voice cracked just slightly at the emotion that pressed against the inside of her throat in an odd, sentimental way. She let go of Alisaie's hand, letting the dagger sink onto her lap, heavy and cold. She grinned when Alisaie rolled her eyes at the gentle ribbing.

"Besides, I can do much better. Here—" The Warrior cleared her throat and leaned over to wiggle her fingers over the surface of Alisaie's rapier, as if she meant to cast a potent spell. " _May this sword remain as sharp as its wielder's tongue, so she can cut down anyone fool enough to stand in her way._ " For dramatic effect, she then tapped it with her index finger. Alisaie shook her head at the absurdity of it all.

"Thank you. 'Tis a blessing most appreciated," she said, sarcasm dripping off her words. She bumped her shoulder playfully against Poppy's as they both shared a laugh.

The fleeting moment of sweet, silly sentiments soon passed. It was replaced by a silence that felt as heavy as the weight of every title earned by the dagger in Poppy's lap. She stared at her arrangement of blades—all sharp, shining, and deadly. They were why she was called so many things, though not every moniker was so poetic and flattering as the one she'd just learned of.

Poppy frowned. When Alisaie's hand found hers in the space between them and curled around it a moment later, she felt a little less burdened and a smile was pulled back onto her lips.

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> just something short and sweet to help me work through writer's block. idk if it helped but it did distract me from patch anxiety at least! anyone else nervous for the 4.5 msq?
> 
> i was thinking about what poppy's title might be if she was a npc in the game and "of the blooming blade" seems pretty apt since she douses all her daggers and knives in floral oils like the dramatic weirdo she is.


	13. alone

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> The unthinkable yet inevitable happens. Poppy isn't ready to face it.  
> Takes place during 4.5
> 
> **Contains story spoilers for patch 4.5!**

The new armor felt odd. Poppy had long cast off such plates and pauldrons for lighter fare that allowed the speed required of wielding daggers. However, she'd decided to wear it, as it was best to not leave anything up to chance when dealing with the Empire. She couldn't risk putting a much-needed victory in jeopardy due to her own foolhardiness.

And so dark metal wrapped around her torso, her legs, her hands, shimmering black like scales plucked from a dragon made of night. It was heavier than what she was used to, yet somehow still lightweight—a contradiction and testament both to her armorer's great skill. Though, the heaviness was more likely due to the weight of the glances pointed at her by what felt like the entirety of the Alliance. 

Despite the nervous chatter and bustle of preparations that filled the encampment, it all felt oddly distant. Her conversation with Alisaie had also fizzled, though Poppy wouldn't be able to say what it was they spoke of if asked. Her mind was off somewhere else, pulled to the battlefield where her teeth were already at the imperial's throats. She itched for a fight, for a chance to release the stress of everything that had come to pass until that point. She felt like she would burst if she didn't act soon.

Out of the corner of her eye, she noticed how Alisaie watched her poke at the straps of her vambraces with hands that moved with fluttering nervousness. Her gaze felt no lighter than those of the others, though when Poppy glanced up she caught sight of eyes that were eerily calm. She noticed how Alisaie's lips were pulled thin in an expression that made it look like she held something back. 

"Have something important to say?" she asked. "You sure look like you do."

A weak smile tugged at the corner of Poppy's mouth in her jest, but Alisaie only shrugged at the prompt to speak. Her eyes were pulled upward towards a dark, clouded sky. She was silent for a moment before she finally spoke:

"Don't you dare leave me alone," she whispered, voice wavering just so.

Her gaze fell on Poppy once more and the look she shot her nearly shattered the Warrior's heart. For a moment, fear was written plainly on her face, visible even through the smoky gloom of night and etched into the frown that pulled on her lips and eyes. 

"Ali—"

Before Poppy could make sense of the tangle of emotion roiling in her gut for long enough to speak, the other woman shook her head. She hid her vulnerability beneath a frail smile that brightened her face just a touch.

"No matter what happens, we have to survive. Together." Alisaie's words were firm despite how they still wavered, almost sounding like an order. For a long, breathless moment, Poppy could do little other than nod. 

"It'll take more than a few Garleans to knock us down," she said. 

A shaky grin crossed her face, but her voice still cracked slightly to betray her. Alisaie's own smile grew wider regardless. Though, when her expression shifted suddenly to something caught between apprehension and embarrassment, Poppy felt the burning need to reach out and touch her, to draw her close and comfort her. Alisaie chose that moment to turn away. 

Without another word, she made her way across the encampment with swift steps. The Warrior watched until she disappeared among throngs of soldiers, her snowy hair like a beacon of light that was snuffed out by shifting darkness. Poppy was left alone, feeling stunned and unsure. When Matoya's words rang clear in her head, her feet began to move on their own— _there was no time for dithering,_ after all. 

It didn't take long to find Alisaie again. She was shielded by the thick shadow of a watch tower that loomed overhead, arms crossed, expression distant and pensive. When Poppy approached she seemed a bit startled to see her so soon and went rigid as she pushed away from the fence she leaned on.

"Shouldn't you be preparing for the battle?" she asked.

"I'm as ready as I'll ever be."

Despite the assured words, Poppy felt unsteady in her armor and wobbled slightly in her greaves when she walked thanks to the anxiety of the battle to come that nipped at her heels. Still, she managed to settle in before her partner and leaned against a beam of the tower. They stared one another down in silence for a while, both wary as they wordlessly tread on eggshells. Alisaie seemed conflicted, battling with herself, fingers paling as they gripped the railing behind her. It was still her who cracked first.

Alisaie closed the gap of space between them to press herself against the cold metal of Poppy's breastplate. Her hands slid up the polished surface until they settled at her shoulders and she bowed her head to bury her face into the bit of fabric that poked out from beneath the armor at Poppy's neck. The Warrior placed a hand on the small of her back to urge her even closer. When she felt her partner's tense muscles go slack beneath her touch, she released the shaky breath she'd been holding. 

"How are you feeling?" she asked, voice barely above a whisper. She felt Alisaie shake her head before she replied. 

"I'm not afraid," she said with quiet confidence, as if she worried that Poppy might think otherwise. "I thought I would be terrified when the fighting started. I _should_ be terrified. But with you at our side...I can't help feeling everything is going to be all right," she trailed off and lifted her head to look at Poppy. A faint smile lifted the corners of her mouth despite her somber tone. "But I'm not you. I just wish there was more I could do." 

Poppy wrinkled her nose at the disparaging tone Alisaie directed at herself. "It's going to be all right because _you'll_ be right there with me. There's no one I'd rather have fight at my side," she said.

"You overestimate my skill," Alisaie replied, nearly deadpan. 

"You underestimate it," Poppy retorted in an instant. She gently bumped her forehead against the other woman's in a silent reprimand, feeling frustration kindle within her at realizing how often it was that Alisaie doubted herself. "Have more faith in yourself. Please," she begged. 

"With everything that's happened as of late, I can't help but feel helpless," Alisaie argued. She closed her eyes and exhaled a weary sigh, sounding frustrated herself. "I feel like I've done nothing to aid the Scions since they fell."

"You know that's not true. But fine, be stubborn." Poppy ground the words out and her ears flicked back with defiance before she continued, "Now's your chance to act. Let's tear out the imperial's throats and end this war—for the Scions. For our friends."

Alisaie opened her eyes a fraction at Poppy's fervent plea and stared at her for a long moment. Something in her seemed to shift and click into place. The Warrior was surprised to see her crack a smirk. 

"General Aldynn was right to be relieved at not being on _their_ side," she joked lightly. "I suppose you're right. Moping now will avail us little. We must fight with enough strength for the friends who are absent, so that they may wake to peace." 

Despite the noise of coming war that echoed around them, Alisaie's words rang clear. Just like that, the spark was back in her tone, shining bright enough to chase away even Poppy's jitters. The Warrior met her gaze, which was determined and fiery again—just as it always was well before their recent troubles had thrown her into despair. A warmth tinged with affection filled her as she looked at the woman who had long ago stolen her heart with that very same fire. Though she was often lauded for her single-handed strength, Poppy knew in that moment that she would all but crumble without the unbending resolve of Alisaie at her side.

 _I_ _love_ _you,_ she wanted to say, but the words got caught in her throat like painful little needles that choked her and refused to come out. Even after all their time together, it still terrified her to say it out loud. Frustrated by her own cowardice, Poppy leaned forward to instead press her lips against Alisaie's. She hoped the gesture would be enough.

The Warrior's arms wound around the other woman's waist and held tight as she worried that Alisaie might vanish into the shadows that cloaked them both if she let go. A hand soon trailed up her neck in a wordless response to those silly fears, stopping to cup her cheek, prompting a shiver to crawl beneath her armor when a thumb grazed the dead nerves of scars along her jaw. Her lips were soft, warm, wanting, pressing light sighs into her mouth. The kiss was fragile, yet frantic all the same and felt almost rushed in the mounting energy that was nearly palpable around them.

It was only when the trumpets blared that they pulled apart. In the split second of pure silence that followed, they stared wide-eyed at one another before the encampment sprung into frenzied action. Their time was up.

"To battle we go, dearest," Poppy whispered into the scant ilm between them. "Together."

Alisaie stepped out of the Warrior's embrace. Her hand reached for Poppy's and held tight, bare skin pressing against thin gauntlets as she lead them from the safety of their hideaway. When she smiled, she looked more determined than ever before.

"Together."

 

* * *

 

The whole world went white.

Static buzzed in her ears, deafening her for several painful moments until she could see again. When she opened her eyes, Poppy already knew. She still refused to believe it.

"Ali?" 

Poppy was on her knees. She didnt want to touch the fallen woman, afraid that she might shatter beneath her fingers, so she watched instead. Deep breaths, eyes closed, expression blank. It was unsettling how much it looked like peaceful sleep.

"Alisaie. Don't—"

Panic flooded her and she was frantic then, reaching out to grip her partner's shoulder with hands that held too tight in a desperate attempt to wake her. She still didn't rouse. 

"Gods, no. No! P-please," Poppy begged, stumbling over the words in her haste to say them. She shook Alisaie again and again. "Don't leave me behind."  

It was no use. Alisaie was gone, and Poppy was alone. Fear closed in around her like cruel walls made of cold steel.

"Are you all right?" 

Hien's question was all she heard over the pounding of her heart. The icy numbness of shock made her nod despite how her mind screamed in protest. He and Yugiri knelt beside the Warrior and exchanged a look of thinly veiled worry. They spoke—to each other, to the others, to her. She didn't hear them, couldn't process their words, wouldn't formulate coherent replies. Her eyes were fixed only on Alisaie's expressionless face.

Encampment. Chirurgeons. Retreat.

Poppy was able to piece together that much. She reached out to cradle Alisaie's limp body in her arms, glad that the others didn't protest her insistence to do so. She carried her all the way back to the Alliance's base, one painstakingly slow step at a time. 

Everything happened in a hazy blur, as if she trudged through a thick fog that made it difficult to breathe. Hands and voices urged her onward, leading her to a tent and an empty cot that she placed Alisaie on. Poppy stared down at her for a long while, still hoping that she might somehow stir. When she didn't, something inside the Warrior snapped like a brittle thread and she fell to her knees in a loud clatter of cold armor. 

She leaned over the cot and buried her face into Alisaie's shoulder. The smell that clung to her coat was foreign—all war and no comfort. There was no trace of her left. Smoke stung her nose and made her eyes well up but she stayed still, silently willing the nightmarish reality she found herself in to dissipate. Her hand fumbled blindly across the rough sheet until it found Alisaie's. Limp fingers didn't respond to the touch of her own, but she still squeezed them tight.

Poppy heard shuffling and the cautious sound of her title spoken by unfamiliar voices. People—chirurgeons, likely—shifted around the edges of the room like ghosts too afraid to approach her. She remained motionless and oblivious to their questions even though she heard the words. Her face remained pressed against her love's shoulder in an attempt to block them all out. It wasn't until a familiar presence found her that she stirred from her stupor.

"Poppy." Lyse knelt beside her. When she placed a hand on her shoulder, Poppy finally looked up. "The chirurgeons want to take a look at her," she said as gently as she could in the moment. "Come with me for a bit?"

The smile she offered Poppy was weary and looked as frail as she felt, but the Warrior still nodded in agreement. She looked back at Alisaie once more and pulled the hand she still held to her lips without much thought. It was the best goodbye she could muster. The other woman's knuckles were cold against her lips and her hand fell back onto the cot when Poppy let it go, soulless and ashen. 

She let Lyse hoist her up by the elbow and lead her out of the room. She spared a final look over her shoulder before the curtain was drawn in her face, blocking Alisaie from view. Hastily, she made for the exit of the tent in an attempt to escape her mounting panic, but Lyse forced her to stop before she could.

"I'm fine," Poppy said in a weak attempt to convince them both. Her voice was coarse as gravel, words tasting of ash.

Lyse shot her a pointed glance that made it seem like the blatant lie had hurt her. She pulled Poppy into an unoccupied room and drew the curtain behind them before the Warrior could protest.

"You're clearly not," she said, sounding incredulous as she urged Poppy to sit on a stool with a gentle shove. "Take a minute to breathe. You've earned that much."

The worry in Lyse's tone made Poppy duck her head to avoid her gaze. She stared at her lap in silence, willing the fragile walls that held her feelings back to hold. It would do her little good to break down then and there. The realm still needed its strong, faultless Warrior, after all. But Poppy only felt weak and sick with shame. When her vision blurred, she buried her face in her hands, not caring that the gauntlets pressed painfully into her skin. 

"I'm alone." Past the thin scales of dark metal that bound her fingers, the words slipped out. "I'm alone," she repeated so quietly that her voice quivered.

"That's not true. You know it's not," Lyse whispered firmly as she knelt before the Warrior. Her hand was on Poppy's knee a moment later to give her a gentle but insistent squeeze. "You have Krile and Tataru and the rest of the other Scions. You have _me_ ," she added. 

Poppy swallowed the tears that threatened to fall. She let her hands drop from her face instead. Lyse smiled at her, reassuring and strong.

"Krile and Matoya will figure this out. I know they will. Until then, you have to be strong. For Alisaie." Lyse's smile grew shaky and her face twisted with obvious worry. "You have to give her your full support, remember? You promised. Even if she's just...just napping! You'll have to scold her for her bad timing when she wakes up. She shouldn't be passing out in the middle of battlefields like that," she added with a strained chuckle, babbling to push through her own sadness.

Hearing Alisaie's name was a fresh stab of pain in her heart but Poppy still managed to nod along absently, thankful for the attempt at humor. A whorl of emotion wriggled in her gut at having such a dear friend who cared for her and Alisaie both. Before Lyse could say more, the trill of a linkpearl sounded from her ear.

"Raubahn? I...I can't right now. I'm with—"

"Go," Poppy cut in, more harsh than intended. "I don't want to keep you. I'll be fine," she added in a softened tone.

Lyse's brows furrowed with hesitation. She didn't look fully convinced, but she nodded after a breath. 

"I'll be there in a minute."

The linkpearl clicked off and they both stood to leave the infirmary tent. The fresh air was a relief when it hit Poppy's face, though it made everything all the more lucid and bright and far too loud. She longed for a moment of quiet, for some sort of relief, but Lyse's hand caught hers before she could slip away. 

"Promise you'll come to me if you or the Scions need anything," she said.

"I will." 

Lyse's grip tightened. " _Promise_ ," she repeated, more firm than before.

"I promise," Poppy said and squeezed her hand in return. She managed to crack a tiny smile of reassurance.

Lyse watched her for a moment as she seemed to silently weigh her seriousness. Poppy finally noticed how exhausted she looked, coated in a layer of soot and sweat and blood that trickled down from a gash on her arm that should've been cleaned long ago. Her throat tightened with guilt at the sight. Poppy knew she had lied when she promised, but couldn't stomach the thought of burdening her friend with more worries.

Lyse eventually uttered a goodbye and slipped away to attend to her own duties. Poppy watched her until she was out of sight. Without her there to hold her steady, Poppy ran. She ran and didn't stop running until she reached the spot where she and Alisaie stood only bells before. It was the only place she could think to go that was far away enough from prying eyes. The Warrior pressed her back against the beam of the watchtower and finally let herself crumble. 

Tears slid down her face, carving thin streams into the layer of dirt and blood that coated her cheeks. Poppy looked up at the sky through her blurred vision. Despite how morning fast approached, the night's last stars were hidden by a layer of impenetrable darkness made of smoke. All was inky and lightless, much like the armor she wore. She felt small in it then, like a frightened child shivering in ill-suited clothes. 

Poppy rubbed her eyes. No matter how she tried to push them away or hide from them behind her hands, thoughts of Alisaie flooded her like the tears, each more painful that the last.

She wished she had held Alisaie for longer. She wished she had savored that final kiss just a bit more. She wished she had said _I love you_  out loud instead of being so foolishly choked by fear. But it was too late. Wishing would avail her little other than more pain.

The memories that came were a patchwork—a bit tattered and frayed, sewn of scraps stolen. She thought of the barbs so often exchanged, of linkshell calls that cracked with the static of distance, of scribbled letters made barely legible, of small trinkets brought together from lands thousands of malms apart. They were both used to the other's occasional absence, though nothing could ever keep them apart for long. And when they were together the time was well treasured, no matter how brief. But this—this was different.

Alisaie was gone. She was gone and Poppy didn't know when she'd be back, if ever, if at all. Her soul was plucked from her body just like the others before her and she didn't know how to get her or any of them back. She was alone.

Reality hit her in full force and made despair needle in her chest as painfully as shards of glass that tore through sinew. Alisaie's words rang in her head unbidden, blaring like an alarm:

_Don't you dare—_

Poppy almost laughed at the cruel irony of it, but choked on a sob instead at how those words had been twisted back on her. She slid down the beam to sit on the ground in a boneless heap of metal and flesh.

_Don't you dare leave me alone._

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> sorry if this is a bit scatterbrained. it was hard to gather all my thoughts and feelings into one coherent chapter, but boy do i have plenty of feelings. also sorry for blatant use of in-game dialogue but some of alisaie's lines were too good to not use.
> 
> basically 4.5 obliterated me and i had to write some very melodramatic angst. :')


	14. red and silver

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> Poppy needs help in regards to a certain special ring.  
> Takes place years ahead in a peaceful future.

The meeting had run late. It was a common, albeit unfortunate occurrence that Lyse often went through given how much talking went into politics and policy. It was something she endured with all the calm and collected perseverance that was expected of a leader, despite how sitting still for so long made her antsy. Normally, an extra half bell didn't make much of a difference, but normal days didn't account for expected company.

Lyse rushed out of the tent as soon as the meeting was done, not caring if she came off as rude, having long lost her last scrap of patience anyway. She couldn't keep Poppy waiting much longer, after all—especially not when her dear friend came all the way to the Reach to talk to her about something _important_ , as she'd said.

Subtle worry plucked at her nerves over the implication of those words and so Lyse scoured the Reach in search of the Warrior. When she couldn't find Poppy at any of her usual haunts, she began to suspect that the other woman had grown impatient and left. She wandered near the falls with the thought to give Poppy a linkpearl call in mind, but as soon as she set foot onto the bridge her hand fell from her ear before she could click the device on. 

Sprawled on the center of the bridge was a very familiar-looking Miqo'te. The woman was, interestingly enough, lying on her back with her head dangling over the edge of the walkway, as if she meant to stare at the falls upside down. Despite the awkward and uncomfortable looking position, she tossed what looked to be a stone up into the air before it landed back in her palm, only to be thrown back up again. Lyse had to stop herself from bursting into laughter at the bizarre sight.

"What in the world are you _doing_?"

She leaned over and managed to catch the stone just as Poppy tossed it up again. When it didn't fall back down onto her waiting palm, Poppy's head snapped up. Her face was a picture of shocked surprise, like she'd just been pulled from a stupor. 

"Lyse!" she exclaimed and scrambled to sit up. 

"What's this for?" Lyse asked, glancing down at the stone that sat on her hand, roughly half the size of her palm. She gripped it and looked out across the pool with a grin. "Oh, want to see how far I can throw it? I bet you I can reach the falls from here!"

Just as she wound her arm up for a throw, Poppy sprang upward to grab her wrist and gave a frantic tug. "No! Give it back!" she yelled. The panic written on her face was enough to get Lyse to stop.

"Gods, all right. Here," she said and fought back a fit of laughter that bubbled behind the words. She dropped the rock back into the other woman's awaiting hands. "What's got you so worked up? It's just a rock." Despite having the apparently precious thing back in her possession, Poppy looked no less distressed than before.

"It's not _just_ a rock! It's a raw star ruby. A really high quality one that you almost just _threw_ _away_ ," Poppy replied. She held the apparent gem close to her chest and shot Lyse a pointed look. "If you'd done that I would've made you go swim to get it back," sheadded, practically hissing the words. 

"Oh." Lyse blinked down at her companion, dumbfounded. When she looked at the rock again, she could indeed see flecks of red sparkle against the otherwise dull surface. Suddenly, she felt just a bit foolish. "Sorry...about that." 

Her sheepish apology was enough to make Poppy's harsh gaze soften. The Warrior sighed and flopped down on the stones of the bridge to sit cross legged. Lyse crouched down to sit beside her, noting how her companion's expression grew clouded again. 

"So...does this rock—I mean ruby—have anything to do with the important thing you wanted to talk about?"

Lyse saw how Poppy's grip on the raw gem tightened. The flecks of dirt still stuck to its surface flaked off onto her hand and the Warrior stared down at them for a moment before she absently brushed them away.

"Yeah," she replied and then hesitated for a moment, wetting her lips before she continued, "It's...it's for, ah..."

Poppy's drawn out stammering was so unlike her usual boisterous self that Lyse almost began to worry again.

"For...?"

"For...for a ring."

"A ring?"

Lyse was confused. She considered all the potential reasons why something so mundane as a ring would cause her companion such distress, but couldn't come up with anything that made sense. When she looked over at Poppy, who nodded and flashed her a shy, simpering look, her confusion melted away in an instant.

"Oh, Twelve," Lyse muttered. The pleasant tickle of a surprising realization passed through her and made a grin spread across her face. "For Alisaie! You're proposing to Alisaie!" she exclaimed, unable to stay quiet in all her excitement.

Poppy lurched forward to slap her free hand across Lyse's mouth. "Gods, Lyse! You don't have to announce it to all of bloody Gyr Abania," she hissed through gritted teeth. 

"As if this wasn't a long time coming. I doubt _anyone_ will be surprised."

The words and the sly chuckle that came with them were muffled by the Warrior's hand, who glowered at the teasing. Lyse reached up and grasped it, pulling it down to squeeze it with her own. She couldn't help but grin again when she saw the faint pink of embarrassment that colored the other woman's cheeks.

"Poppy, that's great news. I'm so happy for you," she gushed. However, when she saw the Warrior's face fall, the edge of her excitement dulled and was replaced by a knot of worry that needled in her gut. "You look too upset for someone who's going to propose to the love of her life. What's the matter?"

"Am I...am I mad for wanting to do this?" Poppy blurted the question out. The words were tinged with desperation and her eyes searched Lyse's face as if she'd find the answer there.

"Is that what you came here for? To ask me if you're mad?" Lyse asked gently, both in disbelief and mild amusement. "Well, yes, but not because you want to get _married_."

The reply pulled a scoff from the other woman and Lyse was glad to see her face soften a bit. The Warrior looked down at her hands that sat within Lyse's grasp, thumb passing over the ruby again and again. 

"I just...I keep thinking about how precarious things are. It's all so...so damn fragile and dangerous. I don't want her to get hurt because of...me and everything I do. Then I think about if I'm worthy of this—worthy of her. I'm not Sharlayan or a noble or rich or—" 

Poppy babbled, troubled thoughts spilling from her lips like the nearby falls. Her tone grew more and more desperate as she went, but she eventually cut herself off to breathe. Lyse gave her hands a tight squeeze in the silent lull that blossomed between them. 

"You _know_ Alisaie doesn't give a damn about any of that. Especially not the nobility bit," she said said firmly. Poppy's tense shoulders drooped a bit, but she still didn't look all the way convinced.

"What if she says no?"

The question was a frail thread laced with just enough fear to make Lyse's heart clench. 

"It's more likely that Yda will rise from the dead and attend all these boring meetings for me."

Upon hearing that, Poppy stared at her in stunned surprise before she burst out laughing. "You're horrible. That's _horrible_ ," she managed to say through her laughter.

Lyse joined her when she saw the remaining tension leave the Warrior onze by onze. When the humor faded, a genuine smile quirked her lips. She pulled her hands away from Lyse's grasp to bring the gem closer to her face and turned it in her fingers, as if looking to appraise its worth.

"A ruby's a good choice, right? Think she'll like it?" she asked, still sounding just a bit worried. 

"It's _red_. Of course she'll love it." Lyse gave an affirmative nod. She smiled, voice softening before she continued, "Almost as much as she loves you."

Poppy's face flushed again, eyelashes fluttering shyly against her cheeks. With the pall of worry cast away, Lyse had never seen her quite so vulnerable or gentle or _happy_ before. The sight was enough to make her heart clench again and urge her reach out and wrap an arm around the other woman's shoulders in an open embrace. 

"Well, I hope I'm invited to the wedding if you're planning on having one. I'd make a mean bridesmaid—or brides _moogle,_ if you want. I can wear a pom and wings and everything."

"Pfft, maybe you can be the one to marry us too. I hear the moogles in the Shroud can do that."

The two of them sat on the bridge for a long while, chatting and laughing together. Despite the renewed levity of the conversation, Poppy's worries tangled in the back of Lyse's mind like incessant little vines. To doubt her own happiness in such a way...It reminded her of the all too real harshness of her dear friend's position in the world, despite the peace she'd earned after years of toiling. 

But, if anyone deserved that happiness, it was the Warrior of Light—along with her equally deserving partner, of course, and Lyse would stop at nothing to protect that.

 

* * *

 

Alphinaud emerged from the Solar with a thin stack of papers in hand. He glanced down at them while he walked, brow furrowed as the rows of numbers stared up at him in a confusing jumble. He took a moment to silently thank the Twelve for Tataru's continued presence in the Scions. He wasn't sure how they'd handle budgeting without her keen eyes and exacting hand there to guide them. 

It was a miracle she even let him hold the documents, frankly, but _someone_ had to deliver them to her in Kugane. She was still wary of him handling anything pertaining to gil despite how many years had passed since the incident with Gosetsu's sword. The earful he'd gotten after that was hard to forget.

So lost was Alphinaud in the embarrassment of the memory that he almost didn't notice that someone was seated at the table closest to the Solar. His head snapped up and he retreated a few steps when he realized that someone was the Warrior of Light herself.

Poppy was hunched over, head resting on her folded arms. What he assumed was a long-cold cup of tea was near her elbow, while what looked to be two tiny squares of metal sat before her. The strange things seemed to occupy her attention, as she hadn't raised her head even when Alphinaud approached. She chose instead to continue staring at them, looking forlorn. He wondered what the metallic scraps had done to earn her apparent displeasure.

"Hello, Poppy," he said in greeting, electing to ignore the oddity of the sight. "I wasn't expecting to see you here. I thought you were afield."

The Warrior glanced up, then jolted upright when she realized who it was that addressed her. "Alphy!" she exclaimed, already large eyes wide with surprise. "I was but...I came back because I wanted to ask you something."

Alphinaud tilted his head, wondering what it was that had the usually unflappable woman so jumpy. Curiosity piqued, he invited himself to take a seat beside her and placed the documents off to the side.

"Ask away, my friend. What is on your mind?" he asked and offered her a smile of encouragement.

Poppy stared down at the table, wordless for a while. Her ears shifted sideways and her hands worried themselves into anxious knots. It was quite a sight to see her so uncharacteristically...nervous, perhaps?

Before Alphinaud could question her hesitation, Poppy reached into one of the leather pouches tied to her belt and retrieved something small and round wrapped in a swath of pale cotton. She pushed the fabric aside to reveal a round red gemstone that sat prettily on her palm, glistening under the torchlight. Alphinaud's brows quirked at the sight.

"I pray you haven't been robbing the graves of any more kings," he said in a mock reprimand, thinking back to their adventure with Arenvald with fondness. The way Poppy puffed out her cheeks made Alphinaud chuckle and the sight was well worth the pinch on his arm the comment earned. 

"I'll have you know that I found this thing myself. All the way in the arse end of the Forelands. Practically got mauled by a bear for my troubles," she grumbled. "Even had it cleaned up all pretty last time I was in Ul'dah."

After she heaved a long-suffering sigh, Alphinaud saw the nervousness return to Poppy in the flutter of her hands as she pushed the two squares of metal before him. She placed the gem between them and looked to him, expectant. 

"What looks better with the ruby: silver or gold?"

Alphinaud stared down at the arrangement, silent in his surprise. Of all things, he hadn't expected to be a sit-in goldsmith for an apparent jewelry consultation.

"While I do dabble with the occasional sketch, I'm no artisan," he said, feeling humbled. "The opinion of someone with a trained eye would be more—"

"I want _your_ opinion."

Despite sounding adamant, Poppy looked sheepish after she cut him off. The Warrior took a deep breath before she continued:

"It's going to be a...ring. A ring for Alisaie."

Alphinaud tilted his head, still puzzled. "For Alisaie? While we are siblings, I can't say I know her preferences for such finery. Why not ask her your—Oh."

He wasn't sure what it was that made his mind piece the puzzle together so abruptly. Perhaps Poppy's incredulous expression had something to do with it. Either way, the realization hit him like a chocobo going full tilt.

"Oh. Oh, Twelve," he murmured.

Alphinaud placed his elbows on the table and pressed his hands against his face, dragging his fingers through his fringe as he fell into a stunned silence. Poppy reached out to grab his arm and give him a shake.

"Alphinaud? Gods, don't go quiet on me. Say something—"

"Silver," he blurted out, cutting off Poppy's panicked plea. "I think Alisaie would like the silver."

Poppy stared at him, eyes wide. "I—so you...approve?" she asked, shifting in her seat uneasily enough that he caught her meaning. 

Alphinaud's nose wrinkled. It was his turn to be incredulous. "Approve? Alisaie hardly needs _my_ approval. She'd box both our ears off if she heard you ask that," he said with just a bit amusement. He looked down at the samples of metal and pushed the lighter one towards Poppy. "Silver will do."

Poppy looked down at the tiny square. She traced the outline of it with her finger, then placed the ruby atop it. After a moment of consideration, she nodded.

"Silver it is, then."

Her voice was quiet, sounding nearly frail. The way she smiled, so soft and slight, made a wave of emotion stir within Alphinaud that replaced his surprise. He was happy—incredibly so. The Warrior had been at his sister's side for many long years enough that he knew for a fact that she made Alisaie happy as well.

"I suppose this means that I'll soon have another sister. How fortune for me," he said after a while, feigning apprehension. He knew the smile that tugged at his lips likely betrayed him. "Though, I'm overjoyed to know that it will be you, my friend."

When Poppy looked up at him, she seemed surprised by his words. He swore he saw her eyes well up, but didn't have a chance to look for very long before she leapt from her chair. She pulled him into a hug, wrapping her arms around his neck while he still sat. Alphinaud chuckled at the sudden gesture and lifted a hand to pat her back. 

"You know, I'm the youngest of all my sisters. It'll be nice having a little brother to boss around, I think," she muttered into his hair. The words were somehow fond despite how smug they sounded.

"Oh, but you already do. Besides, I'm not so little anymore. You're _barely_ my height while I'm sitting."

The comment earned him another pinch—that time on the ear—but Alphinaud could only laugh again.

 

* * *

 

The climb up the hill to Poppy's apartment was not difficult by any means. The cobbled stones sloped gently, easy as can be, but the Warrior felt she would fall apart if she had to take another step. Perhaps it was the long day of training recruits at the Immortal Flames barracks or perhaps it was the armful of groceries she carried that left her so exhausted. Either way, she was eager to get home and flop onto her bed. 

"Winded already, dearest?" her partner said from beside her. The taller woman's tone was playful and laced with mischief. "My, my. You must be getting old."

Poppy's ears flicked back at that. "Very funny. It's not my fault my legs are shorter that yours. I have to work twice as hard to keep up with you," she retorted. 

"Mhm, likely story," Alisaie teased. "You'd best pick up the pace, or I'll leave you behind." To prove her point, the Elezen sped up, taking several long strides that were impossible for the shorter woman to match. Poppy stopped in her tracks, puffing her cheeks out in offense.

"Yeah, you're impressive. But you forget that _I_ have the key."

Alisaie stopped a few paces ahead and turned, shifting the basket of groceries on her arm. "Ah, it seems you've won this bout, then. I concede," she said in a grave, dramatic way.

The Warrior sneered at that and reached into her pocket to retrieve the mentioned key. When her fingertips grazed the edge of a tiny velvet box instead, her heart nearly stopped. She'd almost forgotten that it was in there.

She glanced up to see Alisaie gaze back at her, smiling as the light of the setting sun outlined her in a hazy glow that even Ayzema would envy. The coral color of the sky contrasted against her hair, which was painted the same peach as the puffs of cloud that hung high above them. All was gold and warm and wonderfully serene, and the sight nearly stole Poppy's breath.

She always imagined she would know when the time and place were right, and so she carried the ring in its small velvet box for moons and moons. It was like a little weight that sat in her pocket and had enshrined itself in the back of her mind.

 _One day_ , she often thought, _one day I'll know._

That day had caught up to her, surprising in its mundane perfection.

"You've been gawping for nearly a minute. Is everything all right?" Alisaie asked, concern edging her bemused tone. 

"I—"

Poppy's jaw snapped shut. Before she knew what she was doing, her basket had fallen to the cobbled stones at her feet. She approached Alisaie in quick, determined steps and reached for her hand when she was close enough to press the little red box into her partner's palm before hesitation could find her.

Alisaie stared down at it, utterly bewildered. "What is—?"

"Open it," Poppy replied in a strained whisper. 

Alisaie wordlessly did as the Warrior bade. When she saw the ring nestled inside, shining against the waning sun, her eyes went wide. 

In the brief silence that followed, Poppy panicked. Every horrible thought and doubt that she'd worked to smooth away came back in a torrent of inky fear. Her knees went weak and her hands balled to fists at her sides, but she pushed past the feeling to speak.

"I'd get on one knee, but I'm already short enough," she said, voice cracking with strained humor. "Marry me?"

Alisaie's eyes finally left the ring upon hearing the question. Her expression shifted to something unreadable. "Allow _me_ to kneel, then," she said.

Poppy's fear surged when Alisaie handed the ring back to her. It was replaced by confusion when the other woman indeed knelt before her, and was replaced again by surprise when Alisaie retrieved her own small box bound in black silk from her pocket. She opened it and Poppy was faced with a delicate rose gold band twined around a gemstone colored a dusty, petal pink. She stared, completely enchanted by the beautiful thing. There was long moment of breathless silence that passed between the two women that Poppy eventually broke:

"Did...did we both—"

"That seems to be the case. We've both come prepared for this."

There was another brief silence that quickly crumpled into shared laughter over the coincidence.

"I know you've a multitude of titles already, but would you mind one more?" Alisaie asked. She gazed up at her through a snowy, gold-tinged fringe, looking as sheepish and amused and flushed as Poppy felt. "I think _wife_ would suit you quite well."

The words were soft, stretched to thin gossamer in the dreamlike haze of dusk that surrounded them. They were only just past Alisaie's lips before Poppy gave a vigorous nod.

"I think I can manage, if you can too," she replied, coy despite her thundering heart, and began to grin madly before she continued, sounding almost offended, "Still had to one-up me with the whole kneeling bit, didn't you?" 

Alisaie matched her grin with a smirk and reached out, slipping the ring she offered onto Poppy's finger. "Well, you beat me to it by asking first. I can't let you have all the glory, now can I?"

Alisaie held her hand out and Poppy slipped the other ring onto her awaiting finger. She discarded its box among their mess of spilled groceries and stared down at her own hand where a flash of gold and pink winkled back up at her. The sight made something well up inside her that was overwhelming enough to make tears sting her eyes.

"Oh, dearest. You needn't cry," Alisaie said softly, all joking gone from her voice. She reached for Poppy's hands to comfort her.

"I just never thought I'd live long enough to be able to do this."

The Warrior's blurted admittance seeped into the air between them like smoke, tasting acrid on her tongue. She thought of the wars, of the fighting, of all the death that had followed her for so long. The tears fell freely then, streaming down her face, blurring her vision into a muddle of orange and red. Alisaie watched her, expression guarded as her hands trailed up her arms and brushed across her shoulders to hold Poppy's face.

"Well, you did. We both did."

The seconds between Alisaie's reply and her pulling Poppy into an embrace were lost in the haze. She fell into her love's arms and circled her own around the the other woman's neck, burying her face into her hair.

It was at first a dull realization that she was happy. Truly, unabashedly happy, more so than she had been in a long while. The fear, the worry, the guilt of wanting to live a peaceful life even after everything she'd been through—it all faded away, smothered by Alisaie's arms around her waist, holding her close.

She wasn't sure at what point they'd pulled apart. It could have been bells or suns later with how oddly time seemed to flow. But when they did, they both laughed again, and Poppy realized that her tears had long dried. Wordlessly, they both began the task of fetching their fallen groceries.

"Let's get inside," Alisaie said when everything was back in its proper bag. She stood, smiling down at Poppy as she took her hand. "I have to cook dinner for my future wife."

The way the word _wife_ sounded was so lovely that it made Poppy's throat tighten, but she managed to push a retort past her lips, " _You_ , cook? I'd rather eat something edible."

"I've burnt dinner exactly _once_ and yet you still don't let me forget it." Alisaie punctuated the response with a roll of her eyes and a sigh, but still smiled as she gave Poppy's hand a tug to lead her the rest of the way up the hill.

The Warrior grinned and clutched her partner's hand, feeling the band of her ring press against her palm, a cold little pinprick of red and silver. It made the weight of her own all the more obvious. It was a foreign sensation that sat on her finger—a bit heavy, but not at all unpleasant, and a reminder of the happiness that they'd both earned.

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> hjkdhksdhfk whyyy is sappy stuff is the most embarrassing to post??
> 
> i realized that i never really gave marriage headcanons any thought and after considering it for about five whole minutes...this happened. but hey it's (slightly belated) valentine's day so. that's my excuse.


End file.

Poppy never really liked the sea. She'd been born among the sands of Dry Bone and hadn't even seen the sea until she began adventuring in earnest. One of her first forays into the water had been a half-baked plan to defeat the primal Leviathan that left her soaked to the bone and nearly dead. Her journey to Kugane was a bit less eventful – if one didn't consider getting ambushed by murderous monsters _eventful_ – but the dreadful rocking of the boat had her emptying her stomach over the railing more times than she was willing to admit.

Yet there she was, gladly riding a ferry from Aleport to Limsa when she could have easily traveled via the aetheryte. Something about the brilliant blue of the sky and the gentleness of the waves that lapped against the dock had enticed her to board the small vessel.

Poppy tossed the skipper his coin and sat on one of the ferry's narrow seats. It was a modest boat worn with age, having likely traveled the same patch of sea hundreds if not a thousand times before. As the ferry slowly moved away from the dock, Poppy admired how sun glinted off the distant tides and then realized something - she felt nostalgic for the Ruby Sea.

Poppy sighed wistfully as she stretched out across wooden plank that was her seat. She caused the boat to rock slightly as she shifted and earned a raised brow from the skipper, but paid him no mind as she placed her knapsack beneath her head to use as a makeshift pillow. She gazed up at the wisps of pure white cloud that dotted the sky and was pleasantly surprised when the gentle rocking of the boat lulled her rather than made her sick. Perhaps she'd earned her sea legs after all.

The Warrior nearly dozed off as she reveled in the fonder memories she'd made during her time at the Ruby Sea. Just like anywhere else on Hydaelyn, the area had been full of political turmoil and deadly beasts, but only flashes of peaceful moments played across the backs of her eyelids then. Flying low over the sea with her bird and feeling the salty spray against her legs. Discovering the Raen village hidden deep beneath the waves. Lyse trying (and failing) to teach her how to swim. The tribe of friendly blue Kojin bestowing their blessing on her, Lyse, and Alisaie.

 _Alisaie_.

Poppy's eyes fluttered open and a thrill of excitement passed through her when she thought about the very reason she was making her way to Limsa. She reached into the knapsack beneath her head and rummaged through its contents until her fingertips brushed against the cover of her journal, which she promptly pulled out. It was a small thing bound in red leather that was given to her by Alisaie to practice her penmanship in. According to Alisaie, her handwriting was, _"...so illegible that it made chocobo scratch look like the finest cursive of an Ishgardian noble."_

Poppy lifted the journal an arm’s length above her head, finding that it did wonders in blocking the sun from hitting her eyes. She began to thumb through the pages and wry smile curled her lips when she realized that her writing did, in fact, get neater the further she got into the journal. She was loathe to ever admit that to Alisaie, of course.

The pages contained scrawling descriptions of what she'd been up to for the last moon or so. Most entries were brief and didn't span more than a few sentences, but Poppy had never really been the best with words. Each bit of text was written erratically and at odd angles – sometimes even upside down – as she usually sat in dimly lit inn rooms when she wrote and often drifted off to sleep with a pen still in her hand. But she had no interest in rereading her memories and instead flipped to a more recent entry. Large letters joined by messy splotches of ink covered the otherwise sparse page and spelled out a note written to herself:

 

_Tarts/tea with Ali + girls_

_one bell   Past ~~miday~~ midday , Limsa_

_relax !!_

 

Poppy closed the journal and cradled it against her chest, sighing as she blinked against the sunlight that hit her eyes. Relaxation of any kind was a rare commodity in the days following Ala Mhigo's liberation. She'd been pulled all over Hydaelyn and traveled between Rhalgr's Reach, the Far East, and all of Eorzea often in the span of just a few suns. Traveling the world over only meant that there were more people who needed the Warrior's help.

She felt herself frown, but shook her head as if that would make the thoughts of responsibility somehow fly out of her ears. No, she needed this. She needed a day of peace spent with good friends. She hadn't seen Alisaie in nearly a moon and missed her sorely. Surely the world wouldn't fall apart if the Warrior of Light took one afternoon off.

"We're fast approachin' Limsa, lass," the skipper called out to her.

Poppy shot up from her seat and spun around to lean over the railing of the boat, causing it to rock again and the skipper to shoot her a brief glare. She ignored him and watched as Limsa Lominsa towered proudly in the distance, glistening white and silver among the blue waves surrounding her. Poppy rested her head on her folded arms and eagerly awaited their arrival.

As she peered over the railing into the sea below, she found that her mind returned to the dear friend who she was overjoyed to see again. She met the gaze of her own reflection that mirrored the smile she wore and very briefly wondered if their meeting could be considered a date. No, she thought, since Lyse would be there and it was likely some of the others would be too. Still, the thought made her wonder if she was dressed properly for the occasion. She sat up to straighten her jacket and consider her attire. It was the set of traveling clothes that Tataru had so lovingly crafted and dyed Poppy's favorite shade of petal pink. It was nice enough, she reasoned. There was no need to be overly formal. She was just having some tea with friends. And yet...

Poppy leaned back over the railing and dipped her hand into the water. She touched her reflection to distort it and erase the furrowed brow she saw beneath the ripples she created with her fingers. She was overthinking things, which was unlike her. The Warrior let out an amused huff at her own silliness and pushed the nervous thoughts to the back of her mind. It was strange, the things love did to people.

She glanced upward to judge the time and was surprised to see that the sun was a bit further past its halfway point than she anticipated. It seemed that her leisurely trip across the sea had made her late. Poppy grinned to herself and wondered how cross Alisaie would be with her when she finally showed up.

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> hey nyall here i am back at it again with my two favorite girls. i've had the idea for this fic since last summer so i finally sat down and wrote it. i just really wanted to write something super self indulgent, cute, and fluffy. so here we are!
> 
> this ended up being almost 7k words long so i decided to split it up into more manageable chapters so it's easier to edit and read. i should have the next part up in a couple days!


	2. tarts and tea

The cafe was easy enough to find. Alisaie told her the name the last time they spoke over their linkpearl and Poppy remembered passing it by many times during her trips to Limsa. She made her way to the upper decks and found it tucked in a quaint little corner of the Aftcastle that had a lovely view of the Rhotano Sea. It was quite crowded despite being out of the way and Poppy hoped that meant the sweets would be as tasty as she imagined.

As soon as she stepped onto the terrace, Lyse spotted her and began to wave frantically to get her attention. Poppy made a beeline for the table where her friends and fellow Scions were seated and was delighted to see the three women who beamed back at her.

"There you are!" Lyse exclaimed from her seat between the other two. "We were starting to worry you wouldn't show."

Y'shtola tsked beside her at the head of the table. "Now, now," she chided, resting her chin atop her folded hands. The other Miqo'te regarded Poppy with a warm smile and a flick of her tail. "Our dear Warrior is a busy woman. She still made it, did she not?"

"She most certainly did," said Alisaie who sat opposite of Y'shtola. Poppy's eyes were drawn to her instantly and she was rewarded with a smile as sweet as the tarts and pastries laid out before her. To Poppy's surprise, she didn't really look all that cross. "Though you are over a bell late. Perhaps you can regale us with a tale of the exploits that caused your delay." Ah, there it was. Alisaie's demeanor remained sweet, but her smile turned into more of a smirk as she addressed the Warrior.

"Pray do not antagonize her, Alisaie," Y'shotla said, sounding droll. She lifted her teacup to her lips and peered over its edge, shifting her sightless gaze across the table. "You have awaited your hero's arrival with bated breath for the better part of the afternoon. Are you not pleased to see her?" Y'shtola's eyes almost seemed to sparkle with mischief as she took a well-timed sip of her tea to hide the smile that crept across her face. Lyse giggled quietly beside her as her eyes flitted between the two of them.

Alisaie shot a pointed look back at Y'shtola. "Of course I am," she replied as she glanced over at Poppy, looking embarrassed suddenly. "Though _bated breath_ is a bit of an exaggeration."

Poppy was a bit stunned to hear the other Miqo'te tease her companion so openly. It made her wonder if something had transpired before she arrived. Before an argument could escalate, Poppy cut in with a hearty laugh.

"To be fair, I was pretty tied up earlier," she said as she pulled out the chair opposite Lyse and sat next to Alisaie. "Killing monsters, helping orphans. Typical Warrior of Light fare." Poppy folded her hands neatly in her lap and flashed a broad smile at her companions. She briefly considered mentioning her long ferry ride as well, but knew she wouldn't hear the end of it if she did.

Lyse took a long swig from a glass filled with tasty looking lemonade and then humored the Warrior with a laugh. "That's our Poppy! Never a dull moment."

Y'shtola simply smiled and took another sip of her tea while Alisaie gave a short, almost defeated sounding sigh. "I should have known you were off being heroic somewhere," she said wryly, but looked over at Poppy and offered her an apologetic smile. "No rest for the righteous, as they say."

There was truth in what Poppy had said. Earlier that day, she'd been at Rhalgr's Reach helping M'naago aid the orphans and widows left after the war. And since she happened to be passing through, she went off to kill some notorious beasts that'd been plaguing the coasts near Aleport. Yet guilt still nipped at her for taking the afternoon off and for being tardy.

"I really am sorry for being so late," she said, fidgeting her fingers in her lap as if that would ease the guilt. She looked between her three companions with her ears folded back against her head.

Y'shtola tsked again, though Poppy was the target of her gentle reprimand that time. "There is no need to apologize," she said to the Warrior. "Now that you're here, why don't we order more of...well, everything?"

Poppy's eyes scanned the table hungrily and saw plate upon plate of half eaten treats and nearly empty tea cups. She felt disappointed suddenly that she'd missed out on sampling it all. When both she and Lyse nodded enthusiastically in agreement, Y'shtola set down her tea and waved over the first waitress whose attention she could catch amidst the crowded terrace.

As Y'shtola placed their order and Lyse interjected in the middle with a request for more lemonade, Poppy felt fingers brush against her hand beneath the table. She looked over at Alisaie who smiled and wrapped her fingers around Poppy's to give her hand a gentle squeeze.

"Thank you for coming," she said quietly as she dragged her thumb across Poppy's knuckles.

"I wouldn't miss this for the world," she replied in a hushed tone and squeezed Alisaie's hand in return.

Poppy felt her heart race when she saw how Alisaie looked at her from beneath soft, snowy lashes, so joyful and relieved. The realization of how much she'd missed her hit Poppy all at once. Spending a moon apart from her dearest had proven to be a difficult task.

If Lyse and Y'shtola had noticed the Warrior's loving, heartsick gaze, they were doing a fine job at politely ignoring it. It seemed more likely that they were both distracted by the approaching waitress who carried a tray of fresh treats.

The four woman couldn't help the appreciative _oohs_ and _ahs_ they uttered when the new plates piled high with sugary confections were placed on the table. There were croissants stuffed with almond paste, drizzled with chocolate, and topped with toasted slivers of almond. There was a parchment lined basket filled with fried puffs of dough rolled in sugar and oozing jam. Another plate was covered in petite dollops of meringue colored a faint petal pink. There were also cookies dusted with snowy sugar and cut into heart shapes, as well as several fruit tarts filled with fresh berries. A new pot of tea was placed in the center of the table along with Lyse's lemonade and a pretty pink rolanberry lassi that Poppy realized Y'shtola must have ordered for her.

The Warrior felt her mouth water as she rubbed her hands together in anticipation. Before she could go mad trying to decide what to sample first, Lyse lifted her glass of lemonade

"A toast!" she exclaimed. "To Alisaie's amazing taste in cafes and to Ala Mhigo's liberation!"

Y'shtola chuckled beside her as she lifted her teacup. "To the Scions' recent victories and continued success in our future."

Alisaie's teacup was the next to rise. "To a peaceful Eorzea and beyond," she added and flashed a tiny smile in Poppy's direction.

Poppy lifted her lassi high above the delicious spread before her. "To spending time with good friends," she said, feeling almost teary as she grinned at her companions. "And to eating sweets!"

With that, they all laughed and touched their glasses together with a satisfying _clink_. The four women then tore into their feast with unrestrained enthusiasm.

Poppy quickly loaded up her plate with a sample of everything she could get her hands on, which was, well, one of _everything_ on the table. The meringues were her favorite, she decided. They melted on the tongue like sugary wisps of cloud that were, to her delight, flavored faintly with rose. The doughnuts were divine as well. They were crisp but pillowy on the inside and filled with raspberry jam. The croissant was decadent and chocolatey and the almonds were so satisfyingly crunchy. The tart was topped with the most delicious, juicy blackberries and had a refreshing flavor of mint running through it. And of course, her rolanberry lassi was savored until the last sweet drop.

Her hands were sticky and her face was coated in a layer of sugar, but Gods, was she happy and so unbelievably full. Rather, she _was_ full until she glanced over at a plate near Alisaie and saw a single cookie. A cookie which, she realized, was the only thing she hadn't tried yet and, of course, happened to be the last one left on the table.

Alisaie seemed preoccupied as she listened to Lyse tell a tale of an unfortunate man and a goobbue. Seeing her opportunity, Poppy reached towards the plate with as much discretion as she could muster. Before she could claim her prize, Alisaie gave her hand a smack so quick that the Warrior yelped in surprise.

"It's mine," Alisaie warned. She sounded pleasant enough and looked benign, but the sharpness of her eyes was enough to cut through flesh.

Poppy ignored the daggers being stared at her to instead gaze longingly at the cookie. "But I haven't tried one yet!" She pouted and flipped her ears sideways to look as pitiful as possible. When Alisaie didn't relent, she went on boldly, fueled by sugar and her love of bickering. "Besides, you ate almost all of them on your own."

Lyse paused her story at that point. Both she and Y'shtola hushed as they eyed the other women, perhaps curious to see what would happen when two unstoppable forces collided.

"Must you eat from my plate?"

"It being within an arm's reach doesn't make it yours!"

"I ordered them. That makes them _mine_."

"Last I checked, _Y'shtola_ ordered them."

The pair went silent for a moment before Poppy grinned. "'Shtola," she said almost sing-song without even looking at the other Miqo'te. "Ali won't share!"

When the Warrior glanced over at her companion, she saw Y'shtola look up at the sky as if silently asking the Twelve for strength. "Now, now, children," she played along with Poppy's antics, chiding them both. "I would say Poppy has earned it, having recently liberated two nations and felled three more primals." She spoke with all the gravity of an extremely patient older sister and regarded the Warrior with a long-suffering sigh when the younger Miqo'te's grin turned into a sneer.

Poppy snatched the cookie before anyone could protest. She shoved the entire thing into her mouth at once without breaking eye contact with Alisaie, who glowered in return. As she chewed, Poppy realized it was a ginger cookie. A delicious one at that. No wonder Alisaie wanted it all to herself.

"Twelve above. You're a terror," Alisaie muttered as she leaned back in her chair. She tried to look annoyed, but a loving smile slipped through the cracks of her mask.

With the cookie gone, Poppy licked her lips triumphantly and smiled. "Aye, but I'm your terror," she shot back sweetly with a wink. She remembered very quickly that they weren't alone when Alisaie's brows shot up in surprise.

Y'shtola, who was the smartest among them, ignored what was happening at the other end of the table and opted instead to pour herself a fresh cup of tea. Lyse, who perhaps was't as perceptive as Y'shtola, was clearly enraptured by the whole display. She steepled her fingers atop the table and grinned at the two woman.

"You two are just so sweet," she cooed, very clearly teasing them. "You're making my teeth rot!"

The dagger-sharp gazes of her companions very quickly turned on Lyse, who suddenly wore a panicked look.

"If your teeth are rotting, it's probably all the lemonade," Poppy commented slyly.

"I agree," Alisaie joined in after exchanging a mischievous look with the Warrior. "Is that not your third glass?"

Lyse glanced down at the three empty glasses on the table before looking between the two women in disbelief. "B-but it's so good! Isn't that right, 'Shtola?" Lyse looked over at the Miqo'te beside her, practically begging with her eyes for assistance.

Y'shtola looked up from her tea and simply smiled. "I wouldn't know. You drank it all so quickly that no one else had a chance to try it."

With that, Lyse flopped back in her chair and held her hands up in defeat. "Have mercy, please!"

Another round of laughter erupted from the group. The conversation rolled onward, changing topics from tormenting Lyse to playfully bickering over who had the tastiest drink and which confection was the best. They eventually moved on to exchange amusing stories and before they knew it, another bell and a half had passed. In that time, not another word of primals or wars or fighting was uttered and for a few joyful moments, the Warrior could forget the weight of her title.

Unfortunately, there was still work to be done. Both Lyse and Y'shtola eventually stood from the table to exchange farewells, hugs, and promises that they would all meet again soon. With a final wave, the two of them disappeared into the crowd of the Aftcastle, both returning to their duties clutching small pink bags that held the remains of their feast. The other two were left alone at the table, surrounded by crumbs and empty teacups. Alisaie shifted in her seat as she reached for her coin purse. When Poppy tried to do the same, her hand was smacked for the second time that day.

Surprised, Poppy looked up to see Alisaie's stern look. "I told you this would be my treat," she said, face softening to a smile.

"But we ordered so much," Poppy protested, feeling guilty. She glanced at the two empty spots at the table only to see something glint beneath the rim of both saucers. She nudged the closer one to reveal several coins and let out an amused huff at her discovery. "Looks like our friends left a tip."

"I told them both-" Alisaie cut herself off to sigh and shake her head. "At the very least, allow me to pay for you."

Poppy met Alisaie's determined gaze and knew she would have an easier time convincing a draught chocobo to fly in a snowstorm. "Alright, alright," she relented and removed her hand from her belt. "I s'pose I can't say no to free sweets." She flashed a grin at her dearest, who finally looked content.

The Warrior rested her chin atop her folded hands as she watched Alisaie pull coin after coin from her purse. "Tell me, sweetling," she said and was delighted when the endearment quirked Alisaie's lips into a smile. "How often do you drain the Leveilleur coffers on your sweet tooth?"

The question earned a chuckle. "Often enough for there to be contingency funds in place," she played along, sounding very serious. "Though those funds will rapidly be diminished if I'm to pay for yours as well." She seemed pleased when Poppy let out a hearty laugh at that.

With the bill settled, Alisaie retied the purse to her belt and turned to look at the Warrior. "What of you? Are you running off to do more heroic deeds?" She sounded wry, but there was sadness lurking beneath her words.

Poppy hummed thoughtfully as she looked out at the sea beyond the terrace. There was plenty to be done. No rest for the righteous, as Alisaie had said, but the Warrior found she didn't want to return to her responsibilities just yet.

"The rest of my day is yours. If you'd have it, that is." She looked back at Alisaie and smiled, eyes crinkling with affection. Perhaps it was selfish, she thought, to ignore the problems of the world. When Alisaie's face lit up, Poppy realized she didn't care. A few more bells wouldn't hurt.

"I suppose I could spare some time," Alisaie joked, but was betrayed by the excitement that flickered in her eyes.

As they both stood from the table, Poppy leaned over and pressed a quick peck to Alisaie's cheek. "Thanks for organizing this."

"Of course," Alisaie replied, cheeks flushing slightly from the affectionate gesture. "I'd say we should do it more often, but then our teeth would surely rot."

When they both turned to leave, Poppy laughed and stealthily slipped a few extra coins onto the table. Her compliments to the pastry chef.

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> my big inspiration for this was the really cute tales from the storm entry "a calm after the storm" which you can read [here](https://na.finalfantasyxiv.com/lodestone/special/tales_from_the_storm/sidestory_02/#sidestory_02). i love that ali kept her word about taking everyone out for sweets! it's nice seeing the scions being friends outside of their duties too. 
> 
> i loved having these four interact and writing something a bit more humorous was fun. i was also really craving sweets when i wrote this, if you couldn't tell.


	3. words

The pair soon found themselves outside the walls of the city. They slipped away from the typical hustle and bustle of a Lominsan afternoon past Tempest Gate to the quiet countryside of Lower La Noscea where they could enjoy each other's company in peace. They traveled not ten paces up the La Thagran Eastroad before Poppy's hand found Alisaie's. It felt almost like an instinct to press her palm against the other woman's and weave their fingers together.

Their pace was slow and they spoke mostly of mundane things. There was no talk of liberation or political turmoil, likely to the relief of them both, and a veil of silence soon fell over them. Their words were replaced by footsteps, the rustling of tall grass, and the waves that lapped at the cliffside beneath them. The silence was comforting. That was odd to Poppy, who loved to fill any void of quiet with the sound of her own voice.

Their shoulders brushed together as they walked and Poppy's face felt flushed. That was odd too. She wasn't used to feeling flustered or being shy or her heart beating so fast and her mouth going dry. She marveled at how the woman beside her reduced her to what felt like a pile of mush when they were alone. What surprised her the most was that she enjoyed every aching moment of it.

They walked until they reached Poppy's favorite part of the path where she paused to point at it. "There it is," she said, gesturing to where the road cut directly through a hill to create a pair of holes that looked like eyes. The narrow strip that rose high above the path resembled a bridge made of land that lead directly into the sea. "The view's nice up there on the hill. You can see the coast for malms."

Alisaie smiled at the Warrior before giving her hand a tug and leading her off the path. "Why don't we admire it for a while, then?" 

Poppy chuckled and allowed herself to be pulled along. As she extended her hand to brush it against the tall grass that grew along the side of the road, she noticed the wildflowers that bloomed in clusters up the side of the hill. "Need a break from our walk already, hm?" she teased her companion and paused, letting her hand slip from Alisaie's grasp so she could pick some flowers.

"Hardly," Alisaie shot back. She turned and raised a brow at the Warrior, but didn't bother to ask what she was doing. "Compared to how we traipsed the entirety of the Ruby Sea's coast, this is child's play."

Poppy smiled. It seemed that she wasn't the only one who thought about their far eastern adventure recently.

She turned her attention back to the flowers. She was no botanist, but she knew the names of some of the wild flora that grew along the coast. There was some yarrow that had puffs of tiny white flowers blooming on it like little clouds. She pinched the stem between her nails and twisted to pick it. The yellow ones beside it were either tarweed or sourgrass; the small buds looked similar and she could never remember the difference. She picked those, as well as some of the long grass growing nearby. As for the red flowers...she plucked one and squinted at it for a moment before she chuckled in realization.

"Admiring your namesake?" Alisaie peered at her from the top of the hill where she was already seated comfortably. She smirked at the approaching Warrior who carried an armful of poppies and other wildflowers. "My, you've got an entire garden there. What do you plan to do with those?"

Poppy flopped down in the grass beside Alisaie and spilled the contents of the bouquet across her lap. "I've seen little ones run around Gridania wearing crowns made of flowers. I wanted to try making one," she explained and shrugged, feeling silly suddenly. "Didn't expect to find these though."

She lifted a poppy from the pile and smirked at it. The tiny black seeds atop the stem wore a halo of vivid red petals that danced in the breeze that rose from the sea below. The breeze, however, was a bit too much for the delicate flower and several of the paper thin petals were taken by the gust.

"So damn fragile," Poppy muttered and dropped the disheveled flower back onto her lap.

Alisaie chuckled and when Poppy looked over, she flashed a soft smile that made the Warrior's heart speed up. "How strange for you to be named after something so unlike yourself."

She certainly _felt_ fragile in the moment. Not sure how to reply to the comment, Poppy distracted herself by picking up several flowers and pieces of grass from her pile. She twisted the stems together and wrapped them in the grass to secure them. It looked alright, but when she lifted the flowers to inspect her work, the poppies fell apart instantly and the whole thing unraveled in her hands. 

Poppy sighed as Alisaie let out an amused huff and reached over to take the pile of flowers from her lap. "You're helpless. Allow me." She took a few pieces of the long, thick grass and began to braid them together with impressive speed. She occasionally took some of the yellow and white flowers and weaved them in, creating a thick rope of grass and stems. Poppy was astonished.

"How are you so good at that?" she asked.

Alisaie's lips quirked into satisfied smirk. "Wild roses grew in abundance behind our home in Sharlayan. My mother often brought them in by the armful and taught me how to weave them into crowns. I think she was just trying to distract me from bickering with Alphinaud." Her face softened at the memory as she added another flower to the chain.

Poppy said nothing and simply smiled. She stretched her legs out in front of her and leaned back, burying her fingers in the soft grass and enjoying the breeze that shifted the air around them. She continued to watch as Alisaie deftly pulled the stems together. It seemed effortless when she did it, as if she were just braiding her hair. With the crown formed, she bound the ends together with another piece of grass. She then gently lifted a poppy from the pile and pinched the stem short before tucking it in beside a white puff of yarrow with all the care in the world. The flower miraculously remained intact and Poppy let out an impressed hum.

As Alisaie reached for another poppy, she broke the silence that had formed around them with a question: "May I ask you something?"

Poppy's eyes still lingered on the other woman's hands, almost entranced by the delicate motions. "Of course."

"What am I to you?"

The words hung in the air between them for a moment before the breeze carried them away and snapped Poppy out of her surprised silence. "Oh. I..." she trailed off, unsure how to even begin to answer.

"Ah, forgive me for posing such a question so suddenly," Alisaie apologized, sensing the Warrior's hesitation. "But before you arrived at the cafe earlier, the conversation was rather..." she paused and twisted a piece of grass between her fingers. When Poppy finally looked up at her face, her brows were furrowed with what looked like - surprisingly enough - embarrassment. "To put it plainly, both Lyse and Y'shtola inquired about the nature of our relationship. I answered them truthfully. I've never felt the need for secrecy in these sorts of matters." She spoke with confidence, but when she glanced at Poppy she seemed unsure.

"Those gossipy hens. Is that why they were teasing you?" Poppy couldn't help but laugh and grinned at Alisaie's long-suffering look of confirmation. "You're right, though. We've got nothing to hide," she added.

Alisaie nodded, looking relieved. "That brings me to my question. When they asked, I found myself struggling to find the right words. I was curious to hear your thoughts on the matter."

Poppy felt something akin to shyness crawl beneath her skin and her face grew warm. Endless combinations of words rattled around in her mind, scattering uselessly like the poppy petals had in the breeze as she tried to form a coherent response.

"I guess you could call us sweethearts. But that sounds silly, doesn't it? Lovers is...a bit much, though. I guess I like to think of you as my dearest. Darling could work too. Or even..." she babbled, words spilling nervously from her mouth as she thought of them. She paused to rub the back of her neck as if to physically push the dreaded feeling of being flustered away. "Sorry, I'm not being helpful. I'm just not the best with this sort of thing."

When Alisaie chuckled, Poppy ducked her head with unfamiliar bashfulness at the sound. "Neither am I, clearly," she said and smiled, seeming a bit flustered herself. "Don't fret over it. I suppose what word is used doesn't matter."

They fell silent again as Alisaie's attention returned to the flowers and Poppy gazed out at the sea, lost in thought. It was funny how neither of them was the best with words. They were both women of action, not speech, and that was what drew them together in the first place. The words really didn't matter, did they? Fellow Scion, dearest friend, sweetheart; Alisaie was so much more than a string of titles.

"Well, I love you, so that's what really matters." Poppy spoke absently, continuing her trail of thought out loud. She looked back at the other woman's lap where several more poppies had joined the crown and watched the meticulous motions of her fingers which paused as soon as she spoke. When Poppy looked up, she was met with Alisaie's wide-eyed, astonished gaze. "What's with the face?" she asked bemusedly. When the other woman's apparent shock didn't fade, Poppy sat up, feeling concern jab at her suddenly. "I thought...you knew that, right?"

Alisaie's mouth opened then quickly closed again. When she found her voice a moment later, she averted her gaze from the Warrior before speaking, "Pray forgive my reaction, but things between us have been rather unspoken, have they not?" She paused, looking out at the sea. "I...I suppose I'm just surprised to hear it said out loud." 

Alisaie looked down at the flowers in her lap and smiled. She looked happy and almost fragile in that moment and the sight stole Poppy's breath. Her hand flew to her lips when she finally realized it really was the first time she said the words out loud. Of all feelings, guilt pricked at her like a thorn wedged deep into her side. She wondered why it took her so long to say it. It was plain as day or the nose on her face that she loved the woman beside her. The realization hit her a moment later with all the force of a sword: saying it out loud made it real. 

"Are you happy with this?" Poppy blurted the question out, wringing her hands in her lap. "I'm away a lot and we don't get to spend much time together like this and being with me could be dangerous-" she was silenced when Alisaie reached out and placed a hand on her knee. 

"I'm perfectly content to stand by your side for as long as you would have me, no matter the consequences," she said, speaking with a sort of conviction that put the Warrior's heart at ease. She paused and her face softened to some indescribable emotion before she continued, "And it just so happens that I love you as well." 

The words pierced Poppy's skin like tiny arrows, setting her body alight with what felt like lightening. She stared at the other woman in disbelief as her pulse thundered loudly in her ears. Suddenly, Alisaie's reaction didn't seem so strange.

Her companion chuckled and Poppy realized she must have been gawping like a fool. Alisaie's hands retreated back to her lap and she lifted the finished flower crown that was bursting with bright red poppies, puffs of white yarrow, and several small yellow buds. She moved it towards Poppy, who bowed her head to accept it. 

"'Tis a crown worthy of our Warrior of Light," Alisaie said with much gravity as she placed the flowers on Poppy's head. She leaned back to admire her handiwork, cheeks flushed pink. It fit perfectly between the Miqo'te's ears.

Poppy straightened her back and grinned. She was still reeling, but she managed to pluck a loose flower from the ground.

"And one for you, my lady," she said with all the regality of a noble. She reached out and tucked the poppy behind Alisaie's ear, admiring how the bright red contrasted against her white hair much like the ribbon she wore on her braid. 

"And what will your first decree be, my queen?" The teasing lilt of Alisaie's tone was matched by the smirk that spread across her face. 

"A kiss, if you'd be so kind," Poppy shot back instantly, delighted by their banter. 

Alisaie was already moving closer. Their knees were pressed together and the dwindling ilms between them were filled with warmth. "I would be happy to oblige," she whispered and her lips were on Poppy's a breath later. 

Soft lips were followed by soft hands trailing across her cheeks and the back of her neck. No, not quite soft anymore, the Warrior realized with a thrill of pride. Her love's hands were lightly callused from wielding her sword with great skill and strength. She smiled against her lips, almost bursting at the seams with affection.

Poppy's arms encircled Alisaie's waist. Suddenly, and with much mischief, she tugged and pulled them both backward onto the pillowy grass where they landed side by side, tangled in wildflowers and each other's limbs. Alisaie stared at her with a startled, wide-eyed look for a moment before they both burst out laughing. Poppy propped herself up on her elbow to peer down at Alisaie, who reached up to straighten the flower crown. 

"A bit worse for wear, but still intact," she said tartly, scolding the Warrior for roughing up her creation. 

At that very moment, a large red petal decided to fall from one of the poppies and landed directly on Alisaie's nose, prompting another round of laughter. Poppy brushed the petal aside and beamed down at her dearest when her giggles subsided. Suddenly, words formed on her tongue, tasting as sweet as the pastries they had bells before:

"I love you."

After a pause, Poppy said it again, slowly and quietly as if testing how they felt on her tongue, "I love you."

There was a moment of hesitation from them both that crumpled in an instant when the words were repeated back to her:

"I love you too."

Poppy smiled and said it again and again, making it more real every time she spoke it. The words fell from her lips like petals, landing across Alisaie's face in the form of kisses. Her eyelids, her cheeks, her lips; no part of her was spared. 

When the Warrior finally pulled away and laid back down beside Alisaie, they exchanged a look of shared fragility in the rose colored light of the fast approaching twilight. It was scary, she realized, to expose oneself so wholly. It was scary how simple words could hold such weight. It was scary that life was so stupidly, unfairly fragile and that their happiness could be snuffed out in an instant by a blade or a primal or a warring nation. 

Despite whatever was meant to happen, Poppy was put at ease by her love's smile. She wished she could freeze the moment and carry it with her on the days that were the scariest. Luckily, she had something with her that could do just that. Poppy rolled around and reached into the knapsack that had been tossed haphazardly behind her.

"Your journal?" Alisaie asked as she watched Poppy pull it from her bag, sounding curious as she sat up.

The Warrior flipped to the page containing the reminder for their meeting and plucked a flower from her crown. She gently laid it across the paper. "A keepsake to remember today by," she replied. 

"I hadn't realized you were so sentimental," Alisaie teased, eyeing the journal with lingering curiosity. She seemed pleased that her gift was seeing use. "You actually write in it? Has your penmanship improved at all?"

When Alisaie leaned forward to get a better look, Poppy quickly slammed the journal shut. She wouldn't give her the satisfaction of being right. "None of your business," she said and stuck her tongue out when the other woman glared at her. 

Alisaie rolled her eyes at the childish gesture. "Just let me see. I'm the one who gave it to you, after all." 

She reached for the journal, but Poppy quickly pulled it away and dangled it out of Alisaie's reach. She tried again, looking more annoyed by the second, and fell right into Poppy's trap. The Warrior stole a kiss, relishing in the sound of surprise the other woman made. 

"You really are a terror," Alisaie said between kisses. 

"Your terror," Poppy reminded her sweetly.

"Unfortunately, yes. Mine." 

\- X -

When the Warrior was tucked away in her inn room that night, safe and warm in her cocoon of blankets, she reached for the journal on her bedside table. She opened to the page with the pressed poppy and smiled. Fetching her pen, she recollected the events of the day. For once, she wrote lengthy paragraphs and spared no details. She didn't want to forget any of it. 

Actions were her strength. She likely wouldn't be the Warrior of Light if they weren't. But, she'd realized that words could carry just as much significance.

Poppy wrote in black ink next to vivid red of the flower as neatly as she could manage: 

 _I love her_.

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> when i was little, my parents and i used to visit some family who had a huge chunk of farmland with a big field of wild poppies. i would try to make flower crowns out of the poppies i picked and would get so frustrated because they were so delicate and the petals fell off so quickly! i think that memory is my biggest inspiration for this last scene (and also where poppy's name comes from).
> 
> oh and if you're curious, the coordinates for the area i described are (27, 22) in lower la noscea. it's one of my favorite spots. but wow this sure ended up sappy huh. i can't help it, i'm such a sucker for cute, soft romance. i hope you enjoyed!


End file.


> I blame @psionikubi for this. They mentioned a soap opera drama between Haurchefant/WoL or Zenos/WoL and my brain went "Yeah, but think about the cute fuzzies...", and this horrible thing was born. Also, the WoL in this one is my own character Elias. I had a specific personality in mind that didn't work well if I tried to keep the Warrior ambiguous. So... Enjoy? I guess? No beta, all mistakes are mine, blah blah blah

   "Boo~." The Miqo'te jeered at the television, the kernel of popcorn meant to be popped into his mouth taking a quick reroute to being thrown at the screen when the villain appeared.

  
   "Elias, please don't throw popcorn at the television... I don't wish to have to deal with Estinien's reaction if he came home to a mess." A tall Elezen admonished as he walked into the living room from the kitchen, flicking silver bangs out of his eyes as an amused smile spread across his lips. The Miqo'te tipped his head back against the couch so he could see Haurchefant out from under the hood of his chocobo onesie, the matching double covering the noble's tall form.

  
   "Aymeric's keeping him distracted until tomorrow, so it's fine... Is that hot chocolate?" Elias asked as he lifted his head back up in interest. The hood on the Miqo'te's head twitched and slipped off as two feline ears pricked up eagerly, bright eyes narrowing in on the two steaming mugs held captive in the Elezen's hands. Haurchefant chuckled, wondering if the other had been so engrossed in the soap opera on the TV that he hadn't smelled the chocolate being mixed in.

 

   "Indeed it is." Haurchefant agreed, moving closer to the couch. He leaned down, dropping a kiss to the side of the adventurer's head before he relinquished his hold on one of the hot mugs of liquid chocolate.

  
   "With extra marshmallows?" A hopeful voice and look prompted. The Elezen chuckled and pulled the half eaten bag of large marshmallows out of the pocket of his onesie, modeled after a black chocobo and the matching set to the yellow one worn by the Seeker of the Sun on his couch, who was currently covered in a large blanket and several pillows in an attempt at a pillow fort. Haurchefant dropped the bag of marshmallows onto the coffee table in front of them before he looked to take a seat for himself.

  
Without any convincing needed, the Ishgardian immediately climbed under the blanket when it was lifted, wrapping it around himself in the same manner as his companion. He tugged it closer, and in response the dark-haired Miqo'te at his side scooted closer in order to lean into him. Lean legs clad in a yellow woolen onesie pulled up onto the couch, disappearing under the blanket as well before a long and fluffy black tail appeared out of nowhere and draped comfortably across Haurchefant's thigh in an affectionate manner.

  
Smiling as he leaned in and stole another kiss, this time to a cheek slightly bulged out from the abhorrent mouth full of popcorn now shoved into it, Haurchefant turned his attention to the television before them. "So what did I miss?" He asked, sipping at his own steaming cup of hot chocolate.

  
Elias kept chewing as he leaned forward for the marshmallows on the coffee table, the bowl of popcorn balanced delicately on his legs with one hand holding both the hot chocolate and the corner of the blanket. It was a dangerous feat that could end up in a complete disaster, but a moment later the Miqo'te was sitting back with satisfaction, the marshmallows claimed in between his fingers. Haurchefant never put enough in. They were only large marshmallows, and not the mega ones after all. Swallowing the salty, buttery mess of popcorn in his mouth, he licked his lips and snuggled into Haurchefant's side a little more as he added more marshmallows to his cup, having to stop and take a sip every so often to avoid spilling.

  
   "Okay, so Maria found out that she's pregnant, but it's not with Julio's baby like she thought. Instead, it's Julio's evil twin brother Ricardo's who had faked his death in order to escape from the FBI last season after his plan to replace Julio and take over the family's fortune failed. But Maria doesn't know that, she thinks it's Julio back from his business trip already and is planning on telling him the good news without knowing that it's actually Ricardo. Oh and Veronica's maid was replaced with an evil robot who tried to kill her, but she was saved by the real maid, Guadalupe, and it was really romantic." Elias babbled off, sipping at his hot chocolate dramatically and grimacing when he got melted marshmallow on the tip of his nose.

  
Haurchefant laughed softly and swiped his thumb against the offended nose, wiping away the melted fluff before he popped it into his mouth and licked away the sweetness. "Tell me why we're watching this again?" He asked, mostly just to tease. One black ear lowered while the other perked curiously as he was leveled with two deceptively innocent golden eyes.

  
   "Because it's a guilty pleasure and you love it just as much as I do?" The Miqo'te teased, stealing a kiss from Haurchefant's marshmallow-sweet lips before hitting the rewind button on the remote to start watching from where they left off together.

  
By the end of the episode, the carpet in front of the television was covered in popcorn kernels and a few marshmallows. Elias was fast asleep, his arms tucked up against his chest and his fingers curled into the warm wool of Haurchefant's onesie. The Elezen ran a hand through the Seeker's messy hair with a tender smile before looking at the mess they collectively made over the course of a very eventual episode. The mess was demanding he clean up so he didn't have to deal with Estinien's wrath when his roommate inevitably returned, but at the same time the warm weight of the Miqo'te curled up against his side demanded that he stay right where he was. The mess would still be there tomorrow, so as far as he was concerned he was where he needed to be, doing exactly what he should be. Fixing the blanket so that the sleeping Seeker was more properly covered, Haurchefant closed his eyes and prayed he didn't have dreams of evil twins and killer robots.


End file.

**Author's Note:**

> "Consensual Zenos/WoL sexy times with tail pulling pls!" - Anon
> 
> Alright, I failed the 200 word limit, it's almost 300. But I learned very quickly that 200 words is really not a lot to work with lol.

Zenos let out a low groan as the tight channel clenched around him, one hand coming down to clutch firmly at moving hips as the other wound around a twitching tail. If only his enemies could see them now, the way their beloved Warrior of Light came apart under his touch.

  
   "That's a good boy..." The Garlean purred, sliding his hand from the adventurer's hip to the middle of his back, pressing down on his spine so the other was forced face down on the bed with his hips remaining high in the air. The sharp slap of skin on skin increased in volume as Zenos moved faster, harder. Long fingers squeezed the dexterous tail wrapped around his wrist before giving it a swift tug, making the Warrior cry out and grip tightly to the sheets. If it weren't for the way the other reflexively clenched around him, he would almost think it had hurt. But instead it made the Warrior's body tighten up deliciously.

  
The sound of tearing fabric told Zenos that the other had ripped into his sheets, probably to smother any sounds that might be pulled from his lips. Licking his own lips slowly before they pulled into a pleased smile, Zenos slid his hand up even further and tangled his fingers into hair that was much too soft for such a hardened warrior. Pulling up despite the cry of protest, Zenos chuckled softly and traced slow kisses along a flushed cheek. "What's this now? All out of snark and sass already? And to think... We've only just begun." He purred almost affectionately before trailing gentle kisses down along a sweat beaded shoulder only to chuckle as that tail in his hand twitched again eagerly at the threat, or promise, for more.


	2. WoL & Hien - Berry Tart - Rated G

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> "Would love to see WOL share a berry tart with someone." - ryuusei-no-subaru

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> I mean, 200+ words still technically counts as 200, right?

   "There you are." Hien said, recognizing the Warrior from behind. He held a cloth wrapped bundle in his hands as he approached the other. It was nice to finally have some peace and quiet after the rather exciting events at the Nadaam. It still felt so surreal that the plan he had come to think was merely a foolish dream had come to fruition due to the fortunate arrival of some very odd Eorzean allies.

  
The Warrior looked up towards the Doman before slowly moving aside to allow Hien to sit next to him. Taking a seat, Hien unwrapped the cloth to reveal a warm, freshly made berry tart. "A gift from Esugen. He wanted to thank you for all you've done for him." He said, holding the tart out for the Warrior to accept.

  
Just as he was beginning to take his leave, a hand tugging on his clothing had him taking a seat once again in surprise only for his hands to be filled with half of the warm tart, the thick berry filling spilling out over his thumb. Instinctively Hien lifted his hand to his mouth to lick it clean before he realized that the Warrior had split his treat with him to share. A smile touched the Doman's face that grew at the answering smile he got in return. It wasn't a drink, but he lifted the tart in a toast all the same. "To the Khagan." He said with a soft chuckle as the Warrior lifted his own half and tapped the two halves together to reciprocate the sentiment.


	3. WoL & Haurchefant - Guilt

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> "If you're still doing requests and are also up for it: Haurchefant finding out that WoL is suffering from survivor's guilt and comforts him?" - Anon

   "I wonder if you're attempting to play hide and seek like the children do. If you are, then you're rather terrible at it, my friend." Haurchefant said, offering a simple smile as he approached the Warrior standing in solitary atop the outer walls of Camp Dragonhead. He didn't have to ask to know that something was bothering the other, the heavy gaze in their eyes as they stared at the landscape before them. The knight took a moment to share the silent stare at nothing in particular, wanting to ask what it was that had the other looking so downtrodden. Though he had an idea. In a matter of days, this powerful warrior had lost friends, their home and had been branded a traitor, forcing them to flee to the ice and snow covered lands of Coerthas. A part of him wished that Ishgard were not so closed off, but as it was he couldn't offer much more than a safe haven, and good company.

  
   "Come, it's freezing out here. Let's get you something warm to drink, and see if we can't take your mind off things." He suggested, offering the other a kind smile and feeling relieved when he got a small, tentative one in return. Turning on his heel, Haurchefant led the way to the stairs that would take them down away from the frigid air and into a place of welcoming warmth.

**Author's Note:**

> If you have a prompt you want to see fleshed out in a couple hundred words, feel free to send me an ask/message on Tumblr at http://triskellionquinn.tumblr.com/.


End file.


“Wait.”

At a single word from the Warrior of Light, however, the others stopped, turning back with curious looks. Until now, Robyn had held his tongue—Robyn Lanner, a Midlander slight of build and unassuming in stature, in such extremes that few would take him for such a storied hero were it not for his mastery of black, forgotten arts. But he spoke now, looked to G’raha with an uneasy stare, and did his best to fix a look of determination on his face before he turned to Doga and Unei.

“What you said just now... Those others in the tower, the other... _clones_ , like you— _empty husks_ , you called them.”

He hesitated there, casting about for the proper words, leaving enough time for Doga and Unei to exchange a questioning glance with each other. Before he could speak again, Unei turned that same questioning glance back to Robyn. “We only spoke of them to warn you of the danger they would present,” she said, “so that you would not hesitate to strike them down. I understand if this makes you ill at ease, but...”

Quickly, and perhaps not entirely convincingly, Robyn shook his head. “No, it’s not that. I was just...wondering.” He had looked to Unei as he spoke, but once he found himself hesitating again, so too did he find his gaze sliding downward. “You said that...that their only purpose is to protect the tower. That they have no will of their own. And I was only wondering if—if that’s really true.”

At that, the pair’s eyes widened, and they exchanged another glance, uneasier than before. This time, Doga was the first to speak up: “I know we only just met a short while ago, but I can assure you, we have no reason to lie to you about such a thing—or aught else, for that matter.”

Once again Robyn shook his head, more vigorously than before. “No— I’m sorry, I didn’t mean— I didn’t think you were lying. I just...” Once again, he found himself struggling for words. “The two of you... You were both given _wills_ , by the real—by the _original_ Doga and Unei, right? So, I just thought...”

As he worked it out in his head, he couldn’t deny how outlandish his plea would sound. But he was determined to make it nevertheless.

“I just thought—wouldn’t we be able to do the same? For those other clones—for those _husks._ ”

If they were surprised before, then this was enough to downright shock them. But Unei, at least, seemed to mull it over, and she brought a hand to her chin as a pensive look crossed her features.

“If such a thing were possible...” Her brow knit as she considered the idea; eventually, though, she sighed and shook her head. “Whatever method the original Doga and Unei used is lost to us now, perhaps not without good reason.”

“Besides,” said Doga with a shrug, “even if we did have that knowledge, I sincerely doubt those clones would give you much opportunity to make use of it. They were programmed to attack, not to stand around and parley.”

Robyn had fully expected that what he sought might well be an impossibility...and yet, that made it no less difficult to hear their answer. Perhaps the others noticed it in the sullen stare he cast down to the ground, or perhaps in his crestfallen tone as he muttered in response, “I see”—either way, his disappointment was impossible to miss. But the first among them to break the awkward air that followed was G’raha, stepping forward to clap a hand on Robyn’s shoulder.

“It’ll be alright,” he said, with a toothy, reassuring grin. “Even if you weren’t the Warrior of Light, I’ve seen the way you do battle, and there’s no way those things will be any match for you. You’ve got nothing to worry about.”

At first, Robyn could feel nothing but doubt—until he looked up to G’raha, and caught that glint of red, the Allagan red of his eye... That’s right, wasn’t it: G’raha had much more to worry about, what with the whole of his heritage having just been thrown into question. As if Robyn ever had to contend with that—with the question of who he really was, or where he really came from...

His hand, hanging at his side, slowly clenched into a fist—but the creak of his leather glove reached only his ears, and he looked to G’raha and the others with a smile on his face.

“You’re right. It’ll be fine.” Robyn turned to Doga and Unei, still smiling, with a slight incline of his head. “Sorry if I troubled you. We can talk more about this after Xande is dealt with, if you wouldn’t mind.”

The two of them smiled as well, seeming almost relieved at Robyn’s change in mood. “Of course,” said Unei, while Doga replied with just a nod of his head.

And that was that. Robyn bid the three of them farewell, leaving them to their own business and departing the same way the others had already gone. There was so much to be done—a course to be charted, preparations to be made, adventuring allies to be gathered—and such precious little time...

“Are you quite sure you’re satisfied with that answer, Warrior of Light?”

The voice stopped him dead in his tracks, though he might well have stopped anyway once he saw just who had spoken: Nero tol Scaeva, whom he had thought already left some time ago, instead leaning against the far wall like he hadn’t a care in the world. At once, Robyn found himself on the defensive; just how much of that conversation had he overheard?

Well, if his question just now was any indication, he’d heard enough. Robyn clenched both fists this time, fixing Nero with as steely a gaze as he could muster.

“It doesn’t matter,” he said, hoping the finality in his tone would be enough to put the matter to rest. “What matters now is defeating Xande and sealing off the tower. I can worry about the rest later.”

Nero turned his own steely stare upon him in response, and Robyn found it a struggle not to wilt beneath it. He hadn’t found nearly this much difficulty standing up to the man in their previous encounters—not even deep within the Praetorium, when the very fate of Eorzea was at stake—but in this moment, when he felt as though that piercing gaze alone was probing every inch of his being and deeper within, as though it was seeking out the truth of his existence, the truth that lay behind his vaunted heroism, behind the fabled _Warrior of Light_...

But, unexpectedly, it was Nero who broke the stalemate first—before Robyn himself could break, thankfully—by snorting, pushing off the wall and shrugging his shoulders. “If you insist,” he said, in a tone that could hardly be more obviously insincere if he tried. “Far be it from me to stand in your way, then. As you were...”

He turned on his heel and strode off into the dark, leaving Robyn alone with his unease. He doubted very much that Nero had no intention of _standing in his way_ , but what could he do about it now? Nothing but to move forward, onward and upwards, striking down with fire and ice and lightning and blood whomsoever and whatsoever fought to impede his path...

So it ever was, and so it ever would be for the Warrior of Light, Hydaelyn’s appointed savior. So it ever was and so it ever would be for a creature like him, born with no other purpose than to stand and fight and fight until death.  
  


* * *

  
So it was that Robyn lived up to his appointed title yet again: he had fought his way to the top of the crystal tower, defeated the evil that awaited him there and in the void beyond its peak, and escaped the abyss with his allies unscathed...and then was left to watch as G’raha Tia took the fate of the tower into his own hands, sealed its mighty doors and laid it to rest once more.

But it wasn’t the loss of G’raha which kept Robyn awake that night, tossing and turning in his cramped lodgings at Revenant’s Toll. It was a different loss entirely—the ones who had been left in the abyss, Doga and Unei, and his last chance to learn from them anything of his own self.

In truth, he should have counted himself extraordinarily fortunate to have escaped the void when he did, and perhaps even more fortunate that G’raha and Nero had escaped alongside him. But the Allagans... Even though they weren’t true Allagans, even though they might better be considered _copies_ than the genuine article, the fact remained that they possessed more Allagan knowledge between the two of them than Robyn could ever possibly hope to decipher on his own. And even though they had passed some semblance of that knowledge on to G’raha... Well, now he was gone too—and Robyn was left alone, left with piles of questions that would never find an answer, feeling no more enlightened as to his sense of self or purpose than he was at the very beginning of this entire journey.

Throughout his travels across Eorzea, Robyn had come to learn that it was common, painfully common for living beings to wonder why they were born. Eventually he had reached the conclusion that it was far less common for there to exist a concrete answer to that question, and while that thought should have brought him comfort, it was anything but comforting to realize that his answer lay buried beneath mountains of crystalline rubble, locked away behind impassable doors and incomprehensible technology, and eroded from the passage of thousands, thousands of years.

And then, just when he had finally found what could have been a key to all those locks and doors—just when he had found a single beacon of hope in the interminable void, illuminating a shining path through the darkness of millennia past—only for it to slip from his grasp, with no hope of return... It was too much for him to bear.

But he would have to bear it, wouldn’t he? Whether he liked it or not. He was the Warrior of Light, after all, and it was his duty to become that beacon of hope against the encroaching dark—for the sake of others, for the sake of all others, for the sake of the entire realm, not for himself.

Whether he liked it or not...

A sharp knock came at the door to his room, instantly jerking Robyn from his thoughts. An urgent missive from the Scions or the Eorzean Alliance, no doubt; why bother activating his linkpearl, after all, when he was bedding down so close to the Rising Stones? On one hand he was glad for the reprieve, as any excuse to get up from his bed was vastly preferable over continuing to toss and turn and worry over what might have been—but on the other hand, that reprieve was sure to be brief once he actually learned whatever it was the Scions wanted of him now. Perhaps he was needed to hunt down more Garleans or Ishgardian heretics or, Twelve forbid, yet another primal...

The sight that greeted him once he opened the door, however, was by far the last thing he might have ever expected: a Garlean visitor, no less than Nero tol Scaeva himself leaning against the frame of the door. He was wearing a mask, the very same outlandish mask that had kept his third eye hidden from view when Robyn had encountered him, then unknowing, unsuspecting, in the streets of Revenant’s Toll so long ago, but there was no mistaking him now, none whatsoever.

“Didn’t happen to wake you, did I?”

Nothing in the tone of Nero’s voice suggested he actually cared about Robyn’s answer one way or the other, and even if he had feigned that much, there was somehow even less care to be found in the way he pushed off the frame, ducked his head and swept past Robyn to make his way into the already-cramped room. For Robyn’s part, even if he did have the physical strength to stop him, the suddenness of his appearance had him reeling far too much to even think of standing firm.

“Not much to look at, is it...” He didn’t even turn back to Robyn as he strolled past, taking what was clearly, despite the mask, a disinterested look around the room. “One should think the people of Eorzea a bit less _stingy_ when it comes to lodging their beloved _savior_ , no? Or perhaps this truly is the best they have to offer.”

Still, though he hadn’t the strength or presence of mind to stop Nero’s trespass—or, really, to do anything about it at all, as he found himself practically rooted to the spot where he’d been shuffled aside—it didn’t take long for Robyn to at least regain his verbal faculties.

“What are you...” But the words died in Robyn’s throat as another, more pressing question came rising to the front of his mind. “Why are you still in Mor Dhona?”

Nero had disappeared, hadn’t he? By Cid’s account, at the very least, and Robyn had never thought of Cid Garlond as a man inclined to dishonesty. And if he was truly in hiding from Garlean forces, as he had once claimed, then why would he linger here any longer than necessary? Unless... What reason could there possibly be that would keep him here?

Nero’s first response was a simple, unimpressed _tut_ , the kind that was enough to shake Robyn from his state of shock and put him on the defensive. “I shouldn’t need a reason to go or _not_ go as I please,” he began, and before Robyn could cut in with rightful objection, he continued, “There was a matter requiring my attention at Carteneau, and no more than that would be of any interest to you.”

Once again, Robyn found himself searching for objections—just how far away were the Carteneau Flats from here, anyway? And given what he knew of the place, who was to say that _anything_ there would be of no interest to him? But, yet again, Nero cut him short, removing his mask with a deft flick of his wrist.

“And do shut that door, would you? I do have a reason for being here, and I can’t imagine you’d want anyone else listening in on what I have to say.”

Robyn’s blood ran cold. Nero couldn’t possibly... No, it would do him no good to jump to any conclusions. But neither would it do him any good to leave the door open, just in case his worst fears _were_ confirmed, and so he finally shook himself loose enough to swing it shut.

Of course, as the latch clicked into place, it didn’t escape Robyn that he could simply throw Nero out. But it also occurred to him that his mage’s staff was clear on the other side of the room, and he was hardly worth anything at all in a physical fight, meaning no matter how much he might have wanted Nero to leave, there was little he could do to force the matter. With anyone else he could have been certain that his status of Warrior of Light would put enough weight behind his threats for them to actually _mean_ something, but with Nero...

In any case, he was also reasonably certain that the Garlean would cause him more trouble than it was worth to put up a fight, and so Robyn concluded that his best option was just to hear him out. For now.

“Good, good.” Once he saw the door was shut, Nero tucked away his mask into his coat pocket and turned his attention to a bureau sitting against the far wall, idly scanning over the assortment of potions and papers and plundered trinkets Robyn had haphazardly laid out upon it. “Glad to see you’ve still some reason about you. Wouldn’t want to have wasted my time coming all the way out here...”

“Then stop wasting _my_ time,” Robyn snapped, nearly surprising himself with the force of his words. “Tell me what you want or get out. I’ll even _open_ the door for you, if you like.”

Nero made another tutting sound, to which Robyn found himself clenching his fists tighter and tighter. Not that he could have done much with them; he could hardly throw a punch to save his life, after all. “So impatient... No sense of intrigue...” He picked up a potion bottle as he spoke, held it up to the dim light of a nearby lamp and slowly turned it, watching its contents swirl to and fro. “Then again, I suppose it shouldn’t surprise me to see you so harried. The people of this land must run you _ragged_ with how often you’re tasked to _save_ them, from eikons and beastmen and everything else in this blasted realm... Am I wrong?”

Robyn’s nails dug harder and harder into his palms, but he held his tongue. He didn’t want to give Nero the dignity of a response—more than that, though, he didn’t want to lie when he knew Nero would see right through it, and like hells did he want to tell him the truth.

“Well, in any case—that’s not why I came to speak with you.” Nero set the bottle back down and finally turned to face Robyn fully, arms folding pensively over his chest. Robyn might have felt grateful for the change of subject, but the looming dread of whatever Nero actually wanted to talk about far outweighed any possibility of hope. “Not exactly... But I do suppose the fact of your _exceptional_ capacity to slay eikons is not wholly irrelevant to the subject.”

“How?” As much as he wanted to lash out again, more than anything else Robyn just wanted him to get to the point, and he figured there was no better way of accomplishing that than keeping his own responses as short and straightforward as possible.

“Simply in that there is so little about you—” And as Nero spoke, he gestured with one hand to Robyn, indicating the whole of him with one short wave. “—that would suggest such incredible strength, such... _unwavering_ resolve. Any man who looks you over without knowing your name or your deeds should have no reason to suspect aught of you outside the strengths and shortcomings of any other, any _ordinary_ adventurer... Now, am I wrong?”

No, Nero wasn’t wrong at all. But Robyn alone knew just what pains and efforts he had taken just to make himself seem so ordinary...only now, under Nero’s probing, piercing stare, he suddenly felt _alone_ no more.

“That, of course, is a rhetorical question.” Nero waved his hand once again, this time in a dismissive gesture. “If I had truly expected you to answer, there would have been hardly any need for me to ask... But you play your cards far too close to the chest for that.”

“What do you know about me?”

Robyn’s words were terse, his voice tight. He couldn’t bear much more of this—he just wanted Nero to get to the _point_ already. But Nero still seemed intent as ever to take this at his own pace. A slow smirk rolled across Nero’s features, sending a pang of—of fear, of worry, of _something_ that he didn’t fully understand down Robyn’s spine, and he lifted his shoulders in a languid shrug.

“I know that you are a hero to Eorzea,” he began. “A vaunted slayer of eikons, of the XIVth Legion and now the keepers of the Crystal Tower, having risen from the ranks of the unknown to hearing your name celebrated in every corner of the land in the blink of an eye. I know that your _humble origins_ found you washed ashore on the banks of westernmost Thanalan, where you claimed to have lost your memory in whatever transpired to land you there... And I know that, in the weeks prior to its untimely fall, there were several reports from Castrum Marinum concerning a collection of rather unusual and most _ancient_ wreckage that had been dredged from the Rhotano floor—machinery that was far too broken and battered by the sea to be of any use, but was unmistakably _Allagan_ in origin.”

Robyn’s breath caught in his throat. There it was, his worst fear now all but confirmed. Nero advanced upon him with a single step, still smirking, and Robyn felt not at all unlike prey caught under a predator’s gaze.

“I know that you were possessed of an unusual interest in saving those doomed clones in the halls of the Crystal Tower...and that you were possessed of a remarkable grief upon learning that it couldn’t be done.” He loomed over Robyn now, his face as smug as ever. “Tell me. Am I _wrong?_ ”

What could he say? How could Robyn possibly deny him when Nero had already put so much together, or even failing that, when he had so clearly given away the truth in his reactions, in the look upon his face? How could he bear it—that, of all the people in this world who could possibly learn of his true origins, it had to be _Nero tol Scaeva—_

Before Robyn could look away, Nero reached for him, took hold of his chin with an unexpectedly gentle grasp—gentle enough to startle Robyn, to keep him from instantly jerking away—turned his head from side to side, and stared deeply into his eyes.

“You lack the mark of royalty, to be sure...” The smirk was gone from Nero’s face, and in its place was a keen look Robyn had only seen once before, at the peak of the Crystal Tower. “But there is no doubt in my mind that the power of the Allagans runs through your veins.”

He spoke in a breathless tone, one that caught Robyn entirely off-guard—but that ended as soon as he felt Nero’s thumb trace over the scar on his cheek, and he finally realized just how close the other man was. At once he snatched Nero’s wrist away, but his grip was shaking, far weaker than he willed it to be.

Was it fear? Or was it something else entirely?

“What...” What could he even say? There was a massive coil of emotions surging in his chest, wound tight and threatening to burst, and he felt as though he could put words to exactly none of them—but he had to try, didn’t he? “Why... How does any of this _matter_ to you?” He met Nero’s eyes with a frantic look, aiming somewhere for _angry_ but landing somewhere in _pleading_ instead. “So, what— I was made by the Allagans, _fine_ , you’ve figured it out, I don’t know _how_ , but— But what does that change? I’m no tool for you to use, no—no _Ultima Weapon_ for you to bring to heel, no _toy_ for you to play with! So why—”

Nero cut him off with a barking laugh, startling Robyn so deeply that he completely lost the thread of words that had been tumbling out of his mouth. “Oh, we can be _most_ sure of that. You’re the man who _conquered_ Ultima, and the Crystal Tower, at that! To think, that the greatest known creations of Allag could scarcely _begin_ to rival your strength...!”

His words were breathless again, and there was a wild glint in Nero’s eyes, and Robyn knew not what to say. This time, he _was_ wrong—Nero was wrong, and Robyn knew it more deeply than he could bear. He was nothing without Hydaelyn, after all. Without the Echo, without Her blessing of light, without the Scions and everyone else who had ever aided him along his path to glory, he was little more than scrap, an utter failure in every way, even when it came to the matter of his own termination. Hells, he hadn’t even been much of a mage until he had somehow chanced into finding the Gem of Shatotto; he was an inadequate thaumaturge, a defective model, destined for no more than the testing facilities of Azys Lla and no less than a watery grave at the bottom of the Rhotano Sea. He was nothing, and never did he feel it more keenly than he did here and now, with Nero laying the truth of his past bare.

“To _think..._ ”

But if any of Robyn’s turmoil made itself known in his outward expression, Nero either didn’t notice or ignored it entirely. Instead he brought his other hand to the other side of Robyn’s face, once again startling Robyn entirely too much for him to do anything about it.

“That _you_ , the so-called _Warrior of Light_...are in fact the very _pinnacle_ of ancient Allag’s achievement... How _delectable_ is that?”

Robyn knew not what to say. His already weak grip on Nero’s wrist slackened considerably, leaving Nero free to take Robyn’s face in both of his hands, to lean down and press his lips to Robyn’s forehead.

There was little doubt in Robyn’s mind that what Nero saw in him now bore no meaningful difference from what the rest of Eorzea saw in him: a weapon of unmatched power to be brought against the primal menace, whether as their first solution or last resort, but always one upon which they would ultimately depend. Certainly the Allagans who brought him into existence never intended such lofty goals for him—true, his memories of those first few days of his existence were vague at best, but surely he was never meant to rise above the rank and file, and in the end he couldn’t reach even that most basic level of proficiency—but was the actual purpose of his birth any different? He was born to fight, to fight and to fight and to fight until the day he either fell or was no longer needed, and to that end would he ever perform.

With the way he spoke—with the way he had even broached the very subject, all but boasting in Robyn’s face that he had finally learned the truth—Nero could not have possibly seen him any differently. And yet, in his touch—in the soft splay of his hands as they traveled down to his chest, such unexpected gentleness from a man he knew capable of such cruelty—in the curve of his lips, hot against the corner of his jaw, the side of his neck—there was something different. There was something far different from anything Robyn had ever known.

He felt wanted. Ever had he been needed by this realm, more often than not to save it, but for the first time in his short life, he truly felt _wanted._

He could have easily rejected Nero. Indeed, the thought that rejecting him was surely the only responsible course of action here briefly crossed his mind—but only briefly. How many days had it been, after all, since he had first struck out into this world; how many nights had he spent on his lonesome, tossing and turning just as he had done moments prior, never once knowing the touch of another, never once knowing their _need?_ Not even once had this thought occurred to him, and now here was Nero, bringing it and everything else Robyn had never dared to acknowledge about himself into stark, unmistakable relief.

“How utterly _delightful..._ ”

Robyn’s breath caught in his throat when he felt Nero’s words hot against his skin, followed by a flick of his tongue. There was no use in debating over pretense, he quickly decided; he wanted this, and he could deny it no longer. His hands, once hanging uselessly at his sides, now moved to clutch at the back of Nero’s coat, pulling somewhat less uselessly at his shoulders.

At once, Robyn felt the curve of another smirk against his throat. “So,” came Nero’s low, muffled voice, “you _do_ want to play.”

“Shut up.”

There was no true venom in Robyn’s reply, only impatience, which also made itself known in the way he continued to tug at Nero’s clothes, abandoning his coat for the frankly absurd assortment of buttons and belts underneath. To his credit, Nero said nothing more after that; he only laughed his barking laugh and rewarded Robyn’s sudden impatience with a sharp bite to his neck, eliciting a surprised gasp on Robyn’s part, which quickly developed into a keening noise once Nero laved his tongue and sucked over the spot.

This, truly, was like nothing Robyn had ever known. Already he was feeling dizzy, hardly able to comprehend anything past the raw input of sound and scent and touch—the low rumble in Nero’s throat, the smell of oil and dust that wafted off his hair and his clothes, the scratch of his stubble against the sore spot on his neck... And before Robyn knew it, Nero’s deft hands had found their way beneath Robyn’s undershirt, pulling it over his head in a motion so swift that Robyn couldn’t be sure how the man’s lips had ever left his neck in the time intervening. With his hands now at Robyn’s hips, Nero guided him slowly, firmly back to the bed, never once relenting in the movement of his teeth and tongue over Robyn’s neck and jaw.

Truly, Robyn had not the smallest amount of firsthand knowledge as to what, exactly, he should be doing—but he could make an educated guess. He curled his hand over the back of Nero’s neck, fingers lightly scratching at the nape of his neck, and pulled him down as he sank onto the bed, only releasing his hold as he clambered back and away from the edge in a motion that felt much more awkward than it probably was.

If there was any awkwardness to be found, Nero didn’t seem to notice. Rather the contrary: he followed Robyn down with a look of rapt hunger upon his face, slowly licking his reddened lips as Robyn moved for him, and once again Robyn felt it was not at all unlike a predator’s gaze that Nero laid upon him—but this time, there was no fear in the realization. This time, he was ready to be devoured.

“What a sight to behold...”

If Robyn didn’t know any better, he might have called Nero’s words reverent. Before he could warn him to _shut up_ a second time, Nero was running his hands over him again, only somewhat less gently than before: long, callused fingers probing over the muscles of Robyn’s bare chest, thumbing over his nipples, skating over the plane of his stomach with a touch just light enough to put an arch in Robyn’s back... And then, just as Robyn caught sight of another smirk on Nero’s curled lips, his hand slid further down, circled round his hips to cup the bulge in his pants, and squeezed.

“ _Fuck!_ ” By no means was Robyn a stranger to the touch of his own hand, but this—this was enough to put stars in his eyes. His back arched nearly off the bed entirely as Nero, still smirking all the while, continued to grope and massage him through the thin fabric of his pants. “Fuck— _Nero—_ ”

“I must say,” Nero murmured, continuing to utterly torment Robyn with one hand while idly rubbing the other up and down the length of his side, “the way you’re mewling right now sounds positively _virginal..._ Could it possibly be, the Warrior of Light—”

“Shut _up._ ” Instinctively, Robyn’s hands went to cover his face. If things hadn’t already gotten to this point, Robyn would almost certainly have thrown Nero out over it, lack of physical strength be damned...but, now that things _were_ at this point, he knew that the touch of his own hand wouldn’t be enough after this. Perhaps it might never be enough for him ever again.

“Fine, fine.” Nero drew his hands away, and to his deepest regret, Robyn found himself uttering a purely involuntary whimper when he did. “Have it your way... Besides, if my assumptions are correct, then we wouldn’t want you going off before the main event, now, would we?”

There was still a part of him that felt deeply mortified, more over his own reactions than anything else, but Robyn finally managed to pull his hands away from his face as Nero spoke. He didn’t really understand what Nero meant, but he quickly realized that it didn’t really matter, either, as Nero was now finally disrobing himself, tossing his shirt and coat carelessly over the side of the bed before unbuckling his trousers.

Dimly, Robyn realized that he should probably be doing the same. Still, he could hardly tear his eyes away from Nero as he fumbled with his own pants, squirming in the least awkward way he could possibly manage while roughly shoving them down his hips... And then Nero’s eyes met his, and he let out a low, dark chuckle, and Robyn immediately felt his defenses rise for another teasing jab.

“Such _impatience._ ” Before he could be told a third time to shut up already, Nero had taken the matter of Robyn’s pants into his own hands, and quite literally at that. He’d scarcely been given time to react—but Nero paused then, looking over the whole of him with a soft sigh.

“Ahh, what perfection... Just as I expected.”

Robyn’s mind went blank, perhaps in protest of his attempt to process the fact that Nero was seeing him—seeing _all_ of him—in a way he had never truly been seen before. He had only just begun to struggle for words when Nero leaned down to press his lips to Robyn’s neck again, and whatever words those might have been quickly died off before they had a chance of reaching his mouth. His eyes fluttered shut and his back started to arch off the bed, seemingly of their own accord, as Nero steadily worked his lips and teeth and tongue down his neck, down his chest, and lower still... Robyn’s breath hitched as Nero flicked his tongue over his navel, rubbed a teasing hand over his thigh, and already he could feel another one of those embarrassing moans rising in his throat and there wasn’t a single thing he could do to stop it, except perhaps to cover his face with his hands again and hope Nero wouldn’t notice—

“Oh, _what_ are you doing?”

But, of course, his efforts were doomed from the start. He was almost too afraid to look, but the feeling of Nero moving and shifting his weight on the bed prompted Robyn to pull his hands away—and before he could register anything that was going on he was suddenly scooped up by the waist, pulled abruptly into Nero’s lap with such swiftness that the only reaction he could muster was a sound of surprise much more embarrassing than the moan he was struggling to stifle just moments before.

Mercifully, Nero didn’t laugh at him this time, not even a chuckle. “Much better, hm?” His words were a murmur as he pulled Robyn’s hips flush against his own, and he moved Robyn’s legs to wrap around his waist, guided his arms to circle around his shoulders before he could cover his face again. “No more of that. I want to see your face...”

At this point Robyn was feeling a bit dazed, not only from surprise but also from the overwhelming sensation of Nero’s bare skin against his own; his hands had free reign to roam over his back, and his chest was pressed so close to him, and it was all he could do not to start rocking his hips against him... But still, Nero’s words lingered in his mind: _I want to see your face._

“Why?”

It was quiet, barely a word at all, breathed softly against the shell of Nero’s ear, so intent was he on kissing his neck all over again. But it was enough to bring him to a stop, to bring him to lift his head again and look Robyn in the eye with a bemused expression.

“Why? What sort of question is _that?_ ” He raised a hand to touch Robyn’s face, to once again trace lightly over the scar on his cheek. “Why... If you could only see yourself right now, you would _know_ why.”

Really, Robyn thought that if he could see himself then he would only look as confused as he felt. But before he could repeat himself, more insistently perhaps, Nero kissed him again—not on his neck or his jaw or his forehead but on his lips instead, and once again Robyn felt every questioning voice in his mind fall silent. He pushed, and Robyn’s lips parted, and Nero’s tongue flicked against his own, and Robyn’s hand trailed up the back of Nero’s neck to rake through his hair, and Nero’s hand fell from Robyn’s face to take hold of his cock, and Robyn found himself no longer caring about what sort of sounds he was making as he keened against Nero’s mouth.

At some point—Robyn didn’t know when, he was far beyond any capacity to tell the passage of time—he felt the heat and weight of Nero’s cock against his own, and the friction between them, between him and Nero’s hand, grew ever more insistent. Nero finally broke from their haphazard kiss to pant for breath, and Robyn found himself doing the same, pressing his forehead against Nero’s and tugging on his hair and clutching at his back and thrusting into his hand ever more urgently—and when he came it was with a shout, with a sensation like lightning racing throughout his entire body, pulsing outward from his core into fractal bursts down to his fingers and toes.

When he finally caught his breath, he dimly realized he was still clinging onto Nero just as tightly as before—and Nero seemed to realize this as well, if the soft chuckle in Robyn’s ear was any indication.

“A fine start, wouldn’t you agree?”

This time, Robyn was in no mood to protest Nero’s snark. He only wanted to be swept away.  
  


* * *

  
By the time Nero was fully spent, the long hours of the night had already turned to the small hours of the morning after. Robyn lay awake at his side, wondering about a number of things, not least among them just how in the world he had been able to keep up with this insatiable Garlean and come out unscathed.

Still, at the forefront of his mind were Nero’s words: _I want to see your face. Perfection. The very pinnacle of ancient Allag’s achievement._

It wouldn’t be like Nero at all to be understated, and Robyn knew this. He _knew_ this, and yet... He had felt some sincerity behind his words, and it had stuck with Robyn like a thorn lodged in his chest.

The lights in his room had been dimmed long ago, but still, though it was too dark to see more than the mere outline of his face, Robyn turned to look at Nero. Just when he made up his mind to speak, though, his voice caught in his throat.

Fortunately, a murmur from Nero saved his resolve. “Was there something else?” he muttered, clearly having just barely stirred from his post-coital slumber.

Still, Robyn found himself hesitating. Still, Robyn found himself flinching from the truth...

“You were...” He stopped, reconsidered. “I’m...” Stopped, reconsidered again. “I’m not—”

“You’re not _what?_ ”

“I’m not—” He stopped, wrenched his eyes shut, and mustered all his strength just to force the truth past his stumbling tongue. “I’m not... _perfect._ I’m...a reject. Defective. I don’t know why but when they—when the Allagans made me, I—I came out _wrong._ ”

Nero was quiet for a moment, which was all the time Robyn needed for his heart to skip a beat or two. Then he shifted his weight onto his elbow, looking down at Robyn in the dark.

“And exactly what part of you is defective?”

Robyn was taken aback by the question, too taken aback to immediately respond with _everything_ —it was obvious, wasn’t it? Obvious in the marks on his face, the uneven coloring of his hair and his eyes, the smallness of his stature and weakness of his arm and everything else—

“Rather,” Nero continued, cutting him off before he could give voice to his protest, “I should think you an exemplary model... After all, you’re alive, aren’t you? What other Allagan can say that?”

Whatever protest Robyn had prepared to mount was instantly, though perhaps not entirely, quelled. There was still a voice of doubt in the back of his mind, to be sure, but... What Nero had just said was something he hadn’t considered before. It was something he would continue to consider, taking precedence above all else in his mind, as Nero lay beside him once again, hand lightly curled atop Robyn’s chest, and Robyn’s hand rose to meet his.  
  


* * *

  
When Robyn woke at dawn, he was alone. It took a moment for him to remember why this felt so odd, and why it didn’t feel odd at all that he was entirely unclothed.

Slowly, as he sat himself upright on the side of the bed, the events of the night before came back to him in full clarity. He wondered why he would have ever expected Nero stay; he supposed he should be surprised that he stayed as long as he did, or that he came here in the first place. Then again, perhaps Nero was never a man to do what was expected of him anyway.

It was only when Robyn began to dress himself and gather his things when Nero’s words returned to him as well. Exemplary... Something about the word didn’t feel right; it felt rather like Nero had just been exaggerating again. After all, Unei and Doga had been Allagans like him, more perfectly executed clones than him, and they seemed to have been doing rather well for themselves, hadn’t they—right up until Robyn had gotten himself involved with their plight...

As he picked up one of his potions, however, he noticed a slip of parchment tucked underneath that hadn’t been there before. The writing on it was brief, surprisingly so considering Robyn had a good guess as to who had left it there:

_Had other matters to attend to. I’m sure you have your own as well._  
_Don’t forget what I said, or else I’ll have to come and remind you. I don’t think you’ll like it so much next time._

Robyn wondered about that, and he wondered about Nero’s need to dig at him even when he wasn’t physically near him. He wondered if Nero had actually been sincere, or if it was just another way of teasing him. He wondered...

But he was the Warrior of Light, and he had little time to spend wondering about what might or might not be. With a deep sigh, he tucked away the slip of parchment into one of his pockets, and he prepared to set off into the new day.


End file.


> IN THE BEGINNING... Aurelia and Hien take part in some conversation stemming from her annoyance with Magnai's antics. Yes, he's making fun of her for talking in her sleep. No, they aren't screwing.

"Oooooh, I hate him, I hate him, I _hate him_!"

Lord Hien watched with obvious amusement as the short, angry blonde woman he'd come to call 'friend' stomped her feet on the grass of the Steppe.

"Oh? Tell me how you really feel," he said, beaming, and the frustrated noise she made got him laughing. "I jest, Aurelia! Please, sit. Breathe! Your anger only does you harm."

Sit she did. She plunked down in the grass next to the Doman and huffed, "Can I just punch him? I bet even the sun would have a hard time taking a punch to the face."

Hien tsked. "Nay, you cannot reach his face. I _could_ heft you onto my shoulders, you could reach then... or aim low." The man grinned, and Aurelia smirked at him.

"You. I like you," she said, and she _siiighed_ and leaned heavily against him. Hien hummed contentedly.

"I like you as well," he replied, voice soft. Aurelia blinked, then looked up at him.

The look of complete and utter _guilt_ she wore had him regarding her strangely, head tilted, and Hien asked, "Is something wrong?"

The young woman chewed her lip. "S-Sort of. You know... you know I'm not _really_ a Warrior of Light, correct? I'm -- I can't use magic. I can't wield aether. You see, I don't even really know how I got swept up in all of this. Hells, you lot all should have killed me _ages ago_ \-- "

The Doman huffed a sigh. "I know what you are, Aurelia, and I know who you are. That... changes nothing."

Aurelia frowned up at the man. "The chances of me _not_ eventually betraying the entire lot of you and fucking off are about slim and none."

"You have not thus far. We've faced down your own people _multiple times_ and each time you... you still help. You don't run, and you have had many opportunities to do so. Why?"

She didn't have any real answer to that, and he didn't press her for one. Hien was nothing if not patient and he waited in silence until she was ready to speak -- only moving to lean back, hands planted on the grass behind him. She sat up as he moved. Once he was still, she shifted a bit and then leaned against him again, huffing a sigh of her own.

"I owe the Scions my life," she admitted. "I was at Baelsar's Wall when it fell. I ought to have died, but I did not. I don't remember much -- I don't remember my family, or anything like that. Bits and pieces of my life in Garlemald. My training." She paused. "Garlond and Scaeva both, I owe them, too. The adaptive magitek that I use -- you know that story." Aurelia shrugged lightly. "I want to go home but I do not know how or if I even can. I don't _like_ fighting my own people -- goodness knows I could have killed my own family, or old friends for all I know -- but it's... what option do I have?"

Hien glanced down at the smaller woman, that angry tiny thing that he'd seen tear across the battlefield like a thing possessed, like some ancient spirit of war. His voice was soft again when he asked, "How do you know you are not already home?"

Aurelia's smile was so _tired_. "I know because the moment everything changes and the provinces are released from the Empire, as soon as everyone takes notice of my third eye I'll stop being a hero and instead to back to being the enemy. Were I lucky I would have died at the Wall, then at least perhaps my bones would have made it home."

Silence fell between them again. Hien returned to a mostly-upright position, but when he did so he didn't let her move away -- instead, he put one arm around her and pulled her in close.

"There is something you must know," Hien started. He didn't look right at her, instead staring across the Steppe. "that is, as long as I live you will have a home with me."

That statement surprised and startled the Garlean woman, who looked to the Doman prince for clarification. He _finally_ looked down at her in turn.

"Hien," she said, her tone serious, "I'm not sure what you're saying but I've a feeling you've gone mad. I am your enemy."

"No. You. Are. Not," the prince insisted. "You are _not_ my foe. I trust you with my _life_ , Aurelia! You... I know you will not betray me. I... do not think you want to."

She didn't say a word. He broke the silence again, his tone one of amusement.

"I have heard you state exactly what you think of me _every night_ that we have shared a tent, even multiple times--"

"HIEN!"


	2. The Difference a Week Makes

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> Back we go -- a brief look at just what caused Aurelia to wind up with the Scions, and some idea of her relationship with Zenos.

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> ‘sas’ is the same rank as the ambassador in 4.2, which is the highest rank a non-Garlean can reach. This is the rank that you’ll see in charge of a castrum, and becomes commander of a secondary unit when a legion is split.
> 
> For those of you familiar with the characters because of my Tumblr shenanigans: yes, this is the same Copernicus that's Aurelia's grandfather in the main RP timeline.

* * *

A week earlier and everything would have been fine.

A week earlier and Copernicus wouldn’t have been rushing his 24-year-old daughter to an emergency transport, white knuckle grip on the Gunblade at his side. He wouldn’t have been fighting through Eorzean Alliance troops in a desperate bid to save her life. He wouldn’t have been separated from her.

He wouldn’t have staggered out of the ruins screaming her name until he got hoarse.

Copernicus sas Lucius wouldn’t even look at the Prince a week after the fact as the man looked him over and expressed sympathy for his loss. The diplomat just nodded numbly.

“You ought to know that her body has not been found, sas Lucius.”

The older man gave a thin smile and said, “With due respect, Galvus, please do not get my hopes up.”

Zenos frowned but said nothing else. He swept out of the room, leaving the diplomat alone with his thoughts.

* * *

The first time he saw the blonde Warrior of Light, the tiny spitfire that fought alongside the others as if she had something to prove, Zenos yae Galvus swore he recognized her. She fought with rapier and magitek and a hell of a lot of yelling. She stood up to his attacks as if made of stronger stuff than hyuran flesh.

He didn’t see hate in her eyes like with the others, he saw disappointment and in her voice he’d heard the longing of someone who was far from home and wanted nothing more than to return.

The second time, when he took a close look at her, watched the way she fought, how she handled her tech, how she _danced with him_ , Zenos saw someone he had thought dead. Someone who was now stretched thin and moved as if in a trance. An exhausted young woman with nothing left but to keep fighting. But oh, could she dance, that was what reminded him.

He tried to taunt her as he had when they were younger, to get her to _remember who he was_ and later in the privacy of his quarters he destroyed several vases and pieces of antique furniture in an extremely rare show of frustration. Zenos had been right. The diplomat’s daughter was alive. Broken and with no knowledge of where she’d come from.

Who _he_ was.

It was… a blow to his ego, really. He had known her for years and that was all gone. Years of plotting and training and rule-breaking, of _planning_ , gone.

Zenos blamed them. The resistance. He was going to get her back and get her home, he was going to see her whole again and he’d make them pay for whatever they’d done.


	3. A Brief Dance

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> More backstory with Aurelia and Zenos, with the latter having a little time off from his service in Doma.

_**Garlemald, before van Baelsar’s fall.** _

Neither Aurelia nor Zenos was wearing armour. They traded blows, dancing back and forth along the floor of what was _usually_ a ballroom, the clashing of metal echoing through the empty room.

“Playing politics is making you rusty, Galvus,” the younger woman barked. Zenos’ response was to crack a crooked grin as he spat back, “You might hit me were you to spend less time showing off.”

She surged forward with a yell, and he handily, effortlessly parried and disarmed her, ending the session with the tip of his rapier to her throat. Aurelia grinned at him. When she pressed forward, he withdrew the weapon – seemingly not willing to let her shed her own blood for show.

They circled one another immediately after, with Zenos abandoning his rapier  and leaving his hands free. The pair soon shifted gears, the High Legatus’ son taking the lead as he swept Aurelia across the dance floor in a manner actually befitting the room. He was a respectable ballroom dancer, after all, as anyone of royal blood ought to be.

And every time he did that – because every other thing he did was showboating – the senator’s granddaughter was nearly reduced to tears with laughter. “Zenos!” She exclaimed, “Is this really necessary?”

“This _is_ a ballroom… and we have it to ourselves,” he teased. “We ought to take advantage of that, mm?”

It didn’t help that he towered over her, and much of the dance consisted of him _very literally_ sweeping her off her feet. He did things like this every time he saw her – something that happened less and less as he became more involved in the military.

It was almost as if he were trying to make up for his absence. 

Zenos grinned broadly and lifted her up onto the stage where the orchestra would typically play, and he leaned in close, providing his companion with the perfect excuse to wrap her arms around his neck. “I will be here for a week or so before my return to Doma,” he purred next to her ear. “Perhaps we can catch up… spend some quality time. Have I shown you my most recent acquisition? It has been some time since you had the opportunity to handle my sword.”

The poor woman nearly choked on her laughter and she buried her face against his neck as he just stood there, grinning. He didn’t hold her – not where someone could catch him, at least – and aside from his teasing, their interactions were otherwise chaste. Aurelia let go as she pulled back, then gingerly reached up to tuck some of his hair behind his ear.

_He_ leaned into the touch _ever-so-slightly_ and he frowned at her sad smile. That didn’t last long. She was soon beaming at him as she said, “I’d very much like to see your most recent prize, though were you to allow me to handle it myself that would _indeed_ be a first. Would you be so kind as to allow me to _polish_ your sword? I am so _very_ good with Garlean steel.”

It was Zenos’ turn to laugh. Aurelia looked so proud of herself with that statement, and before he pulled away he murmured, “When the time is right, of course.”

He pulled himself up onto the stage next to her and watched the woman for a moment, thoughtful. There was a lot that he _didn’t say_ , but he didn’t need to. They’d always been able to read one another with little difficulty, and this was just another of those moments where they could sit in silence and not really bother with having to speak at all.

Not that Zenos’ attention span would really _allow_ that to go on for very long.

“Have you managed to convince your father to allow you to enlist?” He finally asked. Aurelia scowled and shook her head.

“No, even with all you’ve taught me he insists it’s too dangerous as if _he_ didn’t serve for most of _his_ life,” she sighed and leaned heavily against the much larger man. The news had Zenos shaking his head, too.

“Then I suppose we are really going to have to do what we’d discussed,” he mused. Aureila looked up and grinned.

“Ah yes, send me over to Doma as your _secretary_. Then _everyone_ will insist that something’s going on.”

Zenos laughed, but he didn’t correct her.


	4. Familiar Faces

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> In the aftermath of Yugiri's failed assassination attempt against Lord Zenos, Aurelia faces him down and learns a little more than she bargained for while _his_ memories take some time to repeatedly stab him in the heart (figuratively speaking).
> 
> Aurelia uses a Red Mage's skillset by virtue of a Magitek kit built by Garlond Ironworks: [an Ironworks Magitek Degen](https://ffxiv.consolegameswiki.com/wiki/Augmented_Ironworks_Magitek_Degen). Controls on the hilt allow her to make use of the caster portion, though much of what she does relies on _actual combat prowess_.

* * *

 

_I knew it was you, I **knew** it was you!_

Zenos and Aurelia had been circling one another for a solid five minutes. Yugiri had fallen, most of his men had been dropped just by virtue of the power he’d unleashed. The woman’s eyes were narrowed. She was trying to figure him out, there was obviously _something_ she’d noticed.

“Aurelia dus Lucius,” he said, a light growl to his voice. She halted, the grip on her rapier growing tight.

“How do you know my name?” Aurelia breathed. The magitek components that made up her entire ‘Red Mage’ kit bobbed behind her. Zenos sneered.

“I have known you since we were _children_. I am the reason you can _fight_. _I trained you._ ”

Aurelia paused, shaking her head. “That cannot be true, the first I ever saw of you was at Rhalgr’s Reach when you slaughtered as many as you could get your hands on,” she said. There was no judgment in her tone – not like there would have been from any of the other Warriors or Scions. He was suddenly in close, the distance between them minuscule, he _towered_ over her. His pale blue eyes were locked on the much smaller woman and his jaw was set. She really could have stabbed him in the neck.

Zenos lowered himself to her eye level and he hissed, “Look me in the eye and tell me you cannot remember. _Look me in the eye._ ”

She sheathed her blade, then cupped her hand to his cheek to keep his gaze locked on hers. Zenos found himself grunting in surprise and leaning into her touch – horribly noticeable to himself, but nobody else.

_“Oh, don’t look at me like that,” Aurelia laughed quietly as she caressed his cheek. He was _pouting_ , she knew he was doing it to tease, and her heart skipped a beat when he nuzzled her hand and rumbled, “Were your father to allow you to come with me…”_

_“He’s worried,” she said. “You know, if we were married he certainly couldn’t say no.”_

_Zenos looked about to kiss her. He even leaned in close as if he were going to, but it wasn’t necessary. With a sigh, he carefully rested his forehead against hers and muttered, “That creates its own set of problems.”_

_“I know,” Aurelia replied, smiling. She nuzzled at his nose. “I _will_ be able to join you one day. I’ll figure it out.”_

_“Mm. Not soon enough, however,” he murmured. “Not soon enough.”_

The young woman pulled away as if she’d been burned and for a moment he thought that maybe she’d remembered something, maybe she was going to come back after all, but she danced backward and her blade was in her hand again. Rage bubbled up from deep within him and Zenos took a deep breath, slowly exhaling through his nose as he straightened and hissed, “What did they _do_ to you, Aurelia?”

She didn’t know how to answer. It didn’t matter. Her back-up had arrived, and though there was so much she wanted to say, _wanted to ask_ , there was no time. When he finally left and he put his back to Aurelia he heard her rapier hit the ground.

Zenos dared to glance back at her one last time. She looked so lost, confused, as if her heart had been ripped out and she had no idea why.

He picked up his pace. He didn’t want to see that look again.


	5. Awake

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> Aurelia wakes up among strangers with little memory of who she is and where she's from. An unexpected ally offers her a gift, and convinces her that she's going to be safe.

Aurelia awoke to the sound of unfamiliar voices, one louder than the rest.

"Of course she's Garlean! So am I! So is _he!_ Do you doubt either of our loyalty or sincerity?" More chatter, then: "Allow me to _re-phrase that_ : do you doubt Garlond because of _his_ heritage? Bah!"

Footsteps drew closer, sounding against the wooden floor of a building she couldn't identify. Aurelia immediately drew the blanket over her head. The footsteps slowed, and she felt someone sit against the edge of the bed.

"You are safe, dear, I am not going to hurt you. None of us are."

When the young woman peeked over the covers her eyes went wide, and the man that looked down at her smiled and added, "Much better. I am Nero tol Scaeva, former tribunus of the XIVth Legion of the Garlean Empire," he paused, hesitated -- was the introduction too much? Of course not! -- then continued, "who might you be?"

He knew, of course. Nero was a man that knew many things. He knew Aurelia from her father's promotion ceremony, from his _own_ promotions, always dutifully standing by the old Lucius' side with a soft smile. Wasn't she a Notarius? What was she doing in Eorzea, let alone at Baelsar's Wall in an Imperial uniform?

"Aurelia," she said hesitantly. "... Lucius? I have such a headache, Nero, sir."

The older man sighed softly and shook his head. "You do not seem a soldier, Lucius. Do you recall your commanding officer? Your orders?"

From the blank look on her face he wagered she didn't. She looked up at him, frowning, then sat up. Aurelia watched Nero for several moments. She reached out to him, fingertips brushing against his stubble-covered chin, and she squinted. He just laughed. "I do need to shave, do I not? Ah, but you must have a reason for this," he gestured toward her, then took careful hold of her hand. Aurelia just looked startled.

"I know you from somewhere," she whispered. "You're-- you're a soldier. You look at me as if you know me, too. I don't remember much. I remember the wall falling around me and then I remember waking up here."

Nero offered another warm smile and gave the girl's hand a brief squeeze before releasing it. "I was a soldier once, yes, and a highly decorated one at that. Those days are far behind me now. Everything will come back to you in time, what I  _can_ tell you is that you are the daughter of a soldier. You are a Notarius, and grand-daughter of a member of senate. Ah, but don't look at me like that. We have things to discuss, you and I."

At that, Aurelia sat up in bed and scooted back against the headboard. She tilted her head to one side. Nero, for his part, smiled in as warm and non-smarmy manner as he could manage -- highly difficult for him. He moved closer, leaning in to speak by her ear so that their conversation would definitely not be heard.

"I will not be able to stay behind and look after you or provide as much guidance as I would like -- I have my own _responsibilities_ to look after. Now, listen carefully, you _are_ going to be safe. I cannot say for certain that you will be able to go home. Your memories will come back. Until then _please cooperate with the Scions._ "

Aurelia stared incredulously at Nero, who chuckled softly. "Trust me," he said. "They _don't_ but they have yet to make any attempt on my life no matter how much several of them would like to see me dead."

The young woman nodded slowly. Nero continued: "I will build a weapon for you before I leave. I have a very good idea of what will best suit and how to make it work -- I am a brilliant engineer if I do say so myself -- so you will at least be able to contribute should they drag you along on their adventures. They most likely will. Cooperate, _help them_. I promise that everything will work out in your favour in some manner or another."

He _couldn't_ promise that, but he could at least give her hope. The way the lost girl looked at him made him feel as if he was doing the right thing.

"Oh, and... this," Nero took something from the pocket of his coat. He held out his hand to Aurela, and when he opened it she looked surprised to see what he was holding: ring on a silver chain. His voice lowered further still, nearly to a whisper: "Keep this hidden. Under your shirt, in a pocket, I do not care -- I took it off you when I found you. Perhaps you will figure out what it means in your travels, and I have no doubt that you will travel far."

When Aurelia glanced helplessly at him Nero understood. He took the necklace and helped her put it on, and she examined the ring very closely, her expression one of bewilderment. It was silverand engraved with the following phrase:  _Unanimi sumus._

"A single soul we are," Aurelia said. She frowned. "Someone gave this to me but I do not know why."

Although Nero had a vague idea, he dared not speak it.

* * *

 

A magitek rapier.

Aurelia had never even _thought_ of such a thing, but there it was, in Nero's hands, being presented to her with no small degree of flourish. He seemed so proud of himself, too -- much to Cid's chagrin. Aurelia took the weapon in hand and tested its weight. She was surprised when the focus that went with it automatically took to the air to float by her side, its motor humming softly.

"This is... this is fantastic!" She exclaimed, beaming, and Nero gave the other engineer a smug 'I-told-you-so' sort of smirk. Alphinaud appeared nervous about the Garlean woman practicing her fencing moves in the middle of the room, but Lyse and Alisaie seemed delighted at the girl's transformation from terrified amnesiac to... less-terrified amnesiac. Cid just sighed.

"I told you, Garlond," Nero all-but-crowed. "The focus is controlled through switches on the blade's handle. It is _constantly_ drawing in aether for use in combat, I will _happily_ demonstrate it for you later."

The young woman sheathed the blade and all of a sudden she'd thrown herself at Nero and drawn him into a tight, and not unwelcome, hug. Her repeated, enthusiastic thank-yous left him in mild shock and it took a little longer than it ought to have for him to react. With soft laughter he patted the girl's back. "You are most welcome, my dear. Put it to good use."

Aurelia just beamed and let go. It wouldn't give her back what she'd lost, but it would at least enable her to be of use.

 


	6. Chapter 6

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> Whether she wants to be there or not, Aurelia is enlisted to help free Doma from the clutches of the Empire. A former friend is lost, an ally _seemingly_ so, and love starts to bloom.
> 
> We also learn a bit more of what a dork Hien actually is.
> 
> This took me far longer than what it should have, but I'm glad to have finally published it!

Doma castle.

The battle was a blur. Aurelia and Hien fought back-to-back most of the way, each covering the other. By then she’d upgraded her armory – some poor soul’s gunblade instead of her rapier, adjustments made to allow her to control her Magitek focus with the new weapon. She was a whirlwind.

Hien was certain he was in love.

Both found themselves startled by the new appearance of Grynewaht and his hypertuning. Aurelia was kept on her toes – but he focused on the rest of the Scions and companions that were with them, his fury driving him to utter stupidity. He didn’t really stand a chance. When he finally fell, a monstrosity lying in a growing pool of his own blood, he blinked up at Aurelia as she stood over him.

She looked… sad, really.

“You let your anger run away with you,” she said. “You really could have been so much more had you focused on your  _ job _ and not… destroying us.”

The dying Roegadyn reached out. “Lady Aurelia,” he choked, “why?”

Hien looked on in confusion as the young woman plunked herself down by the dying man and took his hand in both of hers. He’d been ready to spring when he saw movement, and upon realizing that she wasn’t in danger quite yet, he waited. Watched. Grynewaht struggled to remain among the living. He blinked owlishly at those much smaller hands wrapped about his own and he found the presence of mind to weakly squeeze.

“‘e’s been lookin’ for you. Said… said I was gonna save you.”

There wasn’t much strength left in the dying man, and Aurelia leaned forward to press a soft kiss to his forehead. Grynewaht’s eyelids fluttered, one last attempt to stay  _ awake _ , a battle that he soon lost. Moments after his eyes closed, the younger Roegadyn breathed his last and his body went limp. 

Aurelia gazed absently at the motionless corpse. Zenos had resorted to allowing his soldiers to become monsters? She was strangely silent when she returned to Hien’s side and he looked to her, frowning.

“Onward,” she quietly confirmed. On they went.

-

Aurelia had realized what Yotsuyu was going to do as soon as her hand had moved to her gun. She leapt forward, blade drawn, but not quickly enough – the woman opened fire on Lord Hien, and in the blink of an eye he’d drawn his katana and cut the bullet in two. Aurelia slid to a halt, her gaze snapping to her companion. How the hell did he do that?

The events that followed were a blur. Between the explosions and the knowledge that  _ they were probably going to die _ , she’d turned to Hien and he’d looked to her as if he wanted to say something. Was there even time? Rumbling from above prompted Hien to yell and lunge for the other woman. He knocked her to the floor, fully prepared to shield her from the rest of the building above coming down upon them.

It wouldn’t be necessary.

Both looked up in surprise when they realized they weren’t going to be crushed, when they heard Gosetsu grunt with the effort of holding up the entire palace above them. Aurelia gasped, and Hien hauled her to her feet.

“Go!” Gosetsu insisted. “Leave me!”

They didn’t want to. Good  _ Gods _ they didn’t want to. No argument would make him budge, no insistence that they’d be able to make it if they went  _ together _ , that his fight wasn’t over. In the middle of their debate more gunshots rang out and the old warrior just barely bit back cries of pain.

But he  _ still didn’t budge. _

“Go,” he repeated, his voice strained. “Before it’s too late.”

Unable to reach Yotsuyu – whose gun had thankfully run out of ammo – the companions fled.

Minutes later, as the party escaped over the water, Doma Castle finally collapsed into itself. Nothing more was said until their arrival in the Doman Quarter.

\---

_ “Grynewaht, look! Look!” _

_ He was just seventeen years old, freshly enlisted, already larger than his comrades and about as awkward as he’d ever get. The poor fellow nearly fell over himself as he turned toward the voice, and he suddenly had an armful of laughing Garlean as Aurelia leaped at him and engulfed him in a bear-hug. _

_ Grynewaht, in turn, barked laughter and lifted her off her feet. _

_ “How ‘bout YOU look,” he exclaimed. “I got my uniform! See?! I’m gonna be a… a…  _ Legatus _ one day, jus’ you wait.” _

_ The young Roegadyn set his friend on her feet, and Aurelia beamed up at him. “It suits you. Makes you look like less of a dork.” _

_ “Hey!” _

_ He wasn’t really bothered, he knew she was joking, and then she showed him the ring. It was a silver band, its etchings and design traditional fare as far as Imperial engagement bands went, and Grynewaht’s eyes widened. “He didn’t!” _

_ “He did!” Aurelia squeaked. “I said yes. I said yes!” _

_ The younger Roegadyn scooped her up and twirled her about, cackling, as she shrieked laughter at his antics. “My best friend’s gonna be a princess!” He exclaimed, “You’re gonna be a princess, Aurelia!” _

_ Silly as it sounded, she didn’t mind at all. _

\---

“Aurelia!”

The young Garlean woman paused and looked over her shoulder to find Hien running to catch up with her. She slowed to a halt, as did the other Scions, and she waved them off.

“I’ll catch up with you,” she assured them. “One way or another.”

Though Lyse looked sceptical, the rest simply nodded and continued. Hien slowed to a halt before her and took hold of the young woman’s hands. He was smiling. They’d lost so much, but…

“I never thought I would live to see a free Doma!” He exclaimed. “I just wish Gosetsu could have been here to experience it with us.” He looked down and gave her hands a squeeze, then looked to Aurelia with a thoughtful expression. “I… wanted to thank you for your help.”

Aurelia offered a faint smile in return.

“You… did not  _ have to _ ,” Hien continued, “yet you did, despite… everything. I, er.” The Doman prince cleared his throat, then leaned in close to press a kiss to his companion’s cheek. “I am… grateful to know you, Aurelia.”

_ Oh. Oh, no. _

Her cheeks flushed bright pink and she stared up at Hien, whose eyes went wide. He laughed nervously then, a blush gradually creeping across his cheeks and down his neck. “Would you… I would be honoured if you would stay and celebrate with me.” Hien pulled her close, clutched her hands against his chest. That was as close to a ‘please’ as he was able to get. The way he looked at her made Aurelia’s blush even  _ brighter _ , somehow.

“I-I-I think, I-I, ah,” she stammered. Behind her, suddenly close, came Alisaie’s voice:

“Just say ‘yes’, Aurelia.”

Both prince and pauper yelped in surprise, with Aurelia suddenly winding up pressed against the prince’s chest, and Hien automatically releasing her hands to catch her  _ properly _ .

“Excellent. My work here is done,” Alisaie said, grinning. “We’ll see you in Rhalgr’s Reach in  _ a few days _ , miss Lucius.”

_ A few days!? What did she think was going to— _

When Aurelia and Hien looked at each other, it was obvious that both were asking themselves the same question. Both blushed furiously, but  _ he didn’t let go. _

“O-Okay,” Aurelia stammered. “I-I, er, I mean, yes. I-I’d l-lo, er, I’d be honoured to celebrate with you, L-Lord Hien.”

He looked as if he wanted to faint. The fact that neither of them did was worth celebrating on its own.

\---

A speech gave way to dancing and fireworks and proper celebration, with plenty to drink that allowed the prince and his companion to loosen up just a  _ little _ . When he was finished with his part of the festivities and everything began to slow down a bit, Hien took Aurelia’s hand and leaned close to whisper, “I think now would be a good time for us to… to… go off and celebrate on our own.”

The Garlean’s mouth opened and closed as if she were a fish, and her cheeks flushed bright crimson even as Hien’s eyes widened and he exclaimed, “Ah! No, I meant - I would like to spend some time with you alone. I do not mean for any untoward -”

Aurelia laughed. Maybe it was the sake, but she darted in close and silenced him with a kiss, prompting poor Hien to blush completely before he remembered to lean into the kiss and actually return it, eyes closed. She was the one to break it off. With a warm smile, the younger woman squeezed his hand and quietly told him, “I would like that, Hien. Where to?”

He lead her off into the ruins, a spot along the water’s edge where they could sit together, leaning heavily into one another, to gaze up at the moon and stars. Aurelia clung to the Doman man’s arm as he pointed out the constellations and told her stories from his childhood.

It was a rather sudden moment when he cleared his throat lightly and said, “I think… it would be a lovely evening for a swim, wouldn’t it?”

Aurelia blinked at him in surprise. Continuing from his train of thought, Hien stammered, “We-we really could stand to clean ourselves up a bit, could we not?”

He  _ was _ right. Blood, sweat, and grime from the previous battle still clung to them and as he stood he offered her his hand. The Garlean woman took it, and she squeaked in surprise as he hauled her to her feet. Hien’s smile made the poor girl melt.

They stripped down to their smallclothes and carefully entered the water, though both took the time to actually  _ clean _ their clothing while they were there. A little bit of playful splashing between them, then they both lay their clothes on nearby rocks to dry out. Hien dove beneath the surface, coming up behind Aurelia soon after… and he scooped up water in his cupped hands and dumped it over the girl’s head. Her laughter was contagious, and he found himself laughing, too, as she spun and splashed him back.

That was when the prince actually took a moment to stop and look at her, really look at her. Aurelia’s smile was bright, wild. The warmth in her eyes when she gazed upon him made his heart flutter, and he stopped the horseplay to take hold of both of her hands. He tugged Aurelia close and her eyes went wide with surprise. Softly pink cheeks, blonde hair clinging to her forehead and the sides of her face, the hint of her third eye peering at him from behind her bangs. Though Aurelia was one of  _ them, _ was  _ the enemy _ … he didn’t  _ feel _ like that was true. For Hien, she really wasn’t. She was precious. She was… special to him.

That realization made his expression shift to one of dull surprise, and Aurelia regarded him with mild concern.

“Hien?”

“... I think I am falling for you, Aurelia.”

The way he said it struck her in a manner she couldn’t explain. Her cheeks flushed and she released her hands from his so she could duck in close and hug his neck. At that, it was Hien’s turn to be surprised and he cleared his throat as he slowly, carefully, put his arms around her. He seemed almost terrified - perhaps this was a dream, perhaps it wasn’t really happening, but the warmth that was gradually spreading through him hinted otherwise. He couldn’t help the desperate kiss that followed, and she couldn’t help the way she held tightly to him as if she didn’t want it to stop. Between the kissing and the requisite heavy petting, Hien soon began to notice his own arousal… and panic suddenly set in. He pried Aurelia off him and turned away to force his attention on the stars above.

“What a- what a beautiful evening! W-would you look at that, Aurelia!”

She floated close, wrapping her arms around him from behind, and rested her chin on his shoulder. “Hiiieeen,” she started, nuzzling his neck juuust a little, “Are you alright?”

“Yes,” he lied. “I-I think that perhaps we ought to… go and get some rest. Y-You go on ahead. I’ll, ah, catch up.”

Aurelia knew better than to ask questions. Hien was a very sweet man, he was just not very experienced with  _ personal matters _ \- namely those pesky things called ‘feelings for other people’ and ‘intimacy’. Before she pulled away, Aurelia pressed a kiss to Hien’s cheek and he laughed nervously.

“See you shortly, then,” she said.

Once he was certain she was out of sight, Hien let out a long, dramatic sigh and sunk into the water a bit. He’d soon shrunk back in the shallows beneath a dock where he quietly worked away at his sexual frustration.


End file.


Zenos yae Galvus could not breathe.

He was dead. He had to be. Were that so, then the act of drawing breath would be unnecessary – but his lungs burned with the strain and his heart threatened to burst from his chest. His eyes were open, he saw nothing.

Light.

The sense of _falling_.

He was bolt upright in the darkness, surroundings unfamiliar. Lights gradually came on in rows, one after the other, the sound of heavy switches being flicked into place. Zenos’ hands went to his throat.

_A dream?_

No. All of it had happened, just not directly to _him_.

Bare feet hit the metal floor and he stood, not noticing or caring about his own nudity, nor the stillness in the air about him. The prince’s memory was gradually coming back, the infirmary reminding him just why he was there. Everything started falling into place once he’d moved into the laboratory and he laid eyes on the pods set into the wall – three of them, two empty. A duplicate of himself within the last one.

_It’s cold in here. At least put on pants, for fuck'ssake._

That thought was abandoned as Zenos stepped closer to that last remaining pod.

_The first few died within moments of their activation. Had they been successful, they would have been able to function without my consciousness on board. The first time you watch yourself die is… an experience. The third time, one wonders if perhaps this particular project was a waste of precious resources._

_You sound like your father._

His hand hovered over the pod’s control panel. The keystrokes to shut down the machine and kill its occupant quickly, quietly… he knew them by heart. The process had developed after the third clone’s death. After a while, he simply had no interest in watching himself-but-not-himself bleed out internally and choke on his own blood.

_No. Not today._

Slowly letting out a breath through his nose, Zenos made his way back toward the infirmary. The utter silence in the lab had started to sink in.

A glance toward one of the computer panels against a far wall confirmed his suspicions: the complex had been breached.

_Ah. Right._

Dressing himself was a mechanical act. That damnable gaudy armour was rusting away in the soil of Gyr Abania somewhere, he reckoned, and the standard-issue set of Imperial gear that he had was certainly nothing special. Considering all that had gone on it was most likely for the best.

Oh. And a _gunblade_ , the one hint toward his station that he allowed himself to retain.

The crown prince idly examined his gloved hands. Not so much blood on them then, was there? He could change that in an instant.

Some minor adjustments for the sake of comfort, and with his hand upon the hilt of his gunblade, the scarcely-recognizable crown prince of fucking _Garlemald_ strode from the laboratory and into the main hall.

_Guinea pig, indeed._

It wasn’t until he’d passed through the innermost secured door that he started to piece together what had happened. The Ala Mhigans had found their way in like the swarming insects they were. They hadn’t quite made it to where he rested. That was one secret that was safe for the time being.

Zenos’ gaze swept the hallway before him as he went over the most recent events in his mind. He’d slit his throat – or, his clone had slit his throat, and he was just along for the ride. Mostly. Oh, he’d gotten so caught up in the chase… and it had been a massive success. The Resonant _worked_. He was able to control a fucking _primal_. The possibilities? Endless. There was so much work to be done.

Without Aulus, however, he’d have to do it all himself. In time he’d be able to train another scientist, another team, to handle moving his consciousness about between cloned bodies if absolutely necessary – but he wasn’t certain he had that kind of time.

He couldn’t do that _here_.

Through the second set of secured doors, and he was starting to see signs of the battle that had taken place – was _still_ taking place. Zenos sneered, his hand going to the gunblade at his hip. When the third door to the main body of the facility slid open he was more than ready, and the handful of Eorzean Alliance troops that were working on scavenging the place looked completely baffled that someone had come out of the secured portion of the lab. A glance backward showed him that they’d tried to get in and had not been able to breach the door.

Everything happened so _quickly_ from the point of view of the Eorzeans, but for Zenos, notsomuch. Time seemed to slow for him. Each target selected, inspected, and executed quickly and efficiently. None of them were worthy of his time. Momentum from one kill took him into the next, and the next, and…

When the last man fell, he pulled his gunblade free from the corpse and paused to listen.

Alarms keening, running footsteps, shouting.

He could wipe out every last individual that met him there if he wanted to, yes? No. Zenos felt something very foreign to him: fatigue. If he pushed himself too much he would _definitely_ be killed, even with the power he held.

When the Eorzeans arrived to respond to the commotion he was already gone – as were the clothes of a Roegadyn officer.


	2. Chapter 2: A Five-Fulm Complication

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> A five-fulm-tall complication is added to Zenos' journey, and he starts to learn what life is like without his favourite toys.  
> \- - -  
> Project GLADIUS was an attempt Aurelia oen Lucius (the Balmung-canon version of Aurelia dus Lucius) made to imitate a free paladin's skillset. She scrapped the project for reasons that I'll probably post here at some point but can be found on my main Tumblr account.  
> \- - -  
> This version of Aurelia is something like 6 years younger than Zenos, and they knew each other as children -- though Aurelia doesn't remember him since she was so young. This drives him batty because HOW DARE. So that's a theme that'll come up a fair bit.

The worst decision Aurelia had ever made was to set foot in Gyr Abania without her GLADIUS armour.

She had her pistol, one of her sniper rifles, and a distinct lack of the heavy armour that made her feel most comfortable. Facing down a handful of Ala Mhigans with nothing between her and them but a loose blouse, trousers, and a basic gun was not her idea of a good time. All she’d wanted to do was find proof that the prince was dead. She hadn’t believed it. She hadn’t had _reason_ to believe it.

Not with the letters, and the gifts.

There wasn’t time for her to mentally kick herself for being _so bloody stupid_ but she did so anyway as she opened fire. She was backed into a corner and the only way out would be in pieces, so she might as well take as many down with her as she could.

* * *

Gunfire.

Zenos looked up from where he crouched by the Velodyna River. He’d just paused to rest after two days of not doing so, and to get some desperately-needed water into him. Nobody had bothered him much thanks, in part, to his Maelstrom uniform. Nobody had taken a very close look at him, either.

He pulled his hair back into a ponytail, tied back with cord he’d borrowed from an outpost. Zenos stood carefully, placing his ridiculous hat on his head, and he listened. Closed his eyes. A brief vision left him momentarily dazed but told him all he needed to know – someone very familiar was in trouble, someone that shouldn’t have been out there in the first place. Once he’d shaken off the Resonant’s warning he hurried off to find his quarry.

* * *

Two of five men had fallen, but three more had joined in.

Aurelia shot another between the eyes and the Ala Mhigans lunged at her. She fell beneath them, one stepped back to stand guard, and though she fought to keep her weapon it was soon torn from her grip. Her vision erupted into stars as she was pummeled by boot and fist alike, and the young woman was certain she was going to die.

Two more men broke away to join their fellow, and Aurelia barely registered the ruckus that had started several fulms away from where she lay. One of the Ala Mhigans dragged her to her feet by her blouse, hefted her into the air.

“Look at this, she’s fuckin’ Garlean!”

Her glamour had finally given out, revealing the goldsmith’s third eye. Her vision was growing dark, soon it wouldn’t matter.

As the man hauled back to slug her one last time the screams of his brethren reached their ears. He hesitated, looked back.

Moments later a standard-issue shortsword jutted from his stomach through his back and he let go. Aurelia didn’t hit the ground. The sword was abandoned in favour of catching her, and all the young woman was able to register was a reddish uniform and strong grip.

“For fuck’s sake, girl.”

She knew that voice but she couldn’t _place it_.

Aurelia mercifully lost consciousness.

* * *

_She can’t see you and she doesn’t know who you are._

Zenos clutched the small, broken form against his chest. He’d gathered up the pistol – of reasonable size for him, but not meant for such small hands as its owner’s – and he jammed the weapon into his belt. He had a vague idea of where he was. There were a handful of abandoned villages in the area, if he could get to one of them without getting stopped he’d be able to–

_You aren’t a healer. What does it matter if you save her or if you don’t? She isn’t important._

As much as he tried to tell himself that he really couldn’t _believe it_. There were too many memories tied up in this young woman for him to let her go so easily. He thought he’d set things up so that she wouldn’t have to throw herself into danger anymore. Zenos thought a lot of things, like that his influence would matter in the long run or that he’d be ruling Gyr Abania for the rest of his father’s life.

Nothing ever went as predicted.

As Zenos swiftly made his way from the carnage he’d left behind, he was aware of the ebbing life in his arms. He’d killed so many people, he should have been used to it.

_I still see you as that small, stupid, terrified child I knew as a boy._

* * *

Zenos brute-forced his way into a long-abandoned shop and he set his charge on the counter, then proceeded to shed the thick coat of his Maelstrom uniform. He wrapped the unconscious young woman in that coat and stood there, staring down at her, trying to figure out just what the hell he was going to do.

_You can use magic, damn you, just do something._

He removed his gloves, then gingerly felt along Aurelia’s sides. Things were moving that shouldn’t have been. He saw flashes of the damage – broken ribs, internal bleeding, head trauma. Zenos narrowed his eyes. There was warmth beneath his fingertips, not of blood, but of aether. Two days’ worth of fuel from those he’d killed. If he could just…

_Bones shifting to where they were supposed to be, flesh knitting together, a slowing heart gaining strength._

_Why… why am I so tired?_

As the last of that gathered aether left him, the world started to spin and the floor rose up to punch Zenos yae Galvus in the face.


	3. Chapter 3: Recharge

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> Mmm, aether snacks.

Consciousness was fleeting.

When he was awake the Resonant assaulted him with visions and flashbacks. His father consorting with Ascians, a Garlean man cutting down another in a fit of rage -- he knew that woman. He'd seen her serene smile many times before. _She smiled in death, too._ Another vision of Aurelia sobbing bitterly about him was what woke him from another vague slumber and left him with a cold feeling in the pit of his stomach.

He found the young woman crouching by his side at that moment, crystallized remains of water sprites piled beside her. She pressed the back of her hand to his forehead, Zenos gazed absently at her through his eyelashes and murmured, "Are you real this time?"

She said nothing, she just took his hand and guided him to the shards that she'd placed between them. The shock of bringing more aether into his system brought some clarity to the prince's mind. He sat up, blinking rapidly, and stared at his companion for several moments. Her expression of relief just confused him further.

"You mourned my death. Why?"

The question surprised Aurelia, whose reaction was to just... stare at him. Zenos leaned closer and tried to catch her gaze.

"Aurelia cen Lucius--"

"-- first off, it's _oen_ Lucius now. Secondly, I had told you that you were not allowed to die and you didn't listen. Third, the only person that can use my full name to force a response is my grandmother and she is dead."

Zenos halted. It was his turn to stare. "What?" He asked. "When?"

"That's not -- are you feeling any better? We cannot stay here."

"Aurelia," He pressed, "When did she die."

Her hand brushed against his forehead again and he saw it, he saw the face of another Garlean contorted in rage, axe raised above his head. It was just like one of his earlier fever dreams. Zenos' eyes went wide, pupils dilated as the scene played over in his mind -- the image of that furious man bringing the axe down over and over and over again, blood splattered over his armour and face and snow-white hair. Zenos gasped, and for a brief moment he felt as if he were laying in a rapidly-expanding pool of his own blood. He looked down, he caught the sight of his flesh split and rent and exposed bone and --

"Zenos, _Zenos_!" Aurelia was shaking him, he nearly lashed out, just _barely_ managed to stop himself from knocking her aside. His eyes were still wide, he was _panting_ , and as he gradually returned to himself he whispered, "So that was why she was so familiar. When--"

"... Last year," Aurelia said. "Maternal grandfather killed her. Some of the Third Legion killed him. Then he came back. Zenos, are you going to be alright? We _need_ to move."

"Yes," he rasped. "Pass my coat. We shall head to the border."

He would have to ask about this later. The thought of someone murdering that old sniper -- someone he remembered very clearly as having treated him quite well when he was young -- would have made him angry had he been capable. There was something simmering below the surface.

Aurelia pulled his coat off the counter and stood, offering it to him. He pulled his coat on as he shakily got to his feet and he looked down at the younger woman. His gaze lasted a little too long, made Aurelia shift uncomfortably before she finally took hold of his arm and gave him a light tug.

"Come on," Aurelia said quietly. As if in a daze, Zenos stumbled after her. He regained his composure as they stepped out into the sunlight.

At the sound of distant commotion the pair hurried along, taking to the wilderness in the hopes of evading patrols.


End file.


> Considering I wanted to stay away from smut for a first fic in this , I tried to not be like 'SMUT'. So, it's a lot of friend ship with fluff in there. 
> 
> Having not writing fan fiction in years, I hope this is a good attempt back into the swing of things.
> 
> Also, I tried to stay in character for Hien as best I could including voice. So, I hope you enjoy!

How long had it been since she stepped onto these shores? The cool, but sweet breeze of the Ruby sea grew faint as the scent of Yanxia, its breadth of trees, flowers, and wildlife roaming along. Only receiving letters of the passing time within the Far East only drew so much of a picture than one could see in the flesh. 

 

Pulling onto her satchel, she removed a scroll that had been received during her last excursion in Gyr Abania while helping out the Ala Mhigans. 

 

Those devilish little moogles popped up right in front of her, her name clear as day on the front of it. At first, whom had sent it confused her as there was some semblance of stability in her life. (Well, minus some treasure hunting, but that was a whole other bag of worms.) But her question was soon answered on the contents of the letter. A certain lord had asked to call her away from her duties for just a few days. 

 

Considering  her track record with Ala Mhigo had gone swimmingly and after that Lakshmi issue had been settled, the Warrior of Light took the liberty to write back that she would come without an entourage of twins behind her back. Only if she could get a few days without them in a panic. 

 

“Namai, Namai, Namai…” The word repeated, as she took the path. Hien wrote in his letter to meet there on the second to last sun of the Sixth Umbral Moon. As her mind muddled over what he had meant, she could see the aura of lights from the lanterns from the distance of her destination. Yes, it had been night when she arrived on the shores here - her timing completely off as the prospect of being halfway around the world escaped her. 

 

Following the path under the clear sky caused no immediate problems for the Warrior of Light as she made her way into the small town. It surely was no castle or the Enclave, which she wondered how that was coming along now. 

 

“Hey! I didn’t expect you here!” She heard a boisterous voice call out to her. And it was… not Lord Hien, but it was Isse followed by his sister, who had tripped over something. He had run back over to her quickly, though both held smiles on their features. 

 

Running towards the two, she held out her hands. “Calm down, no need to get hurt because I’m here. Guess you are that excited I showed up.” She  leaned forward, a tooth grin of her own as she patted his shoulder and rubbed his sister’s head back giving them move space again. 

 

“Well, it has been a while since the Garleans were driven out. And Namai gets busier by the day, a bit overwhelming.” 

 

His shoulders shrugged as he talked about the rice fields and how the village was providing for the people. Listening intently, she was not going to let Isse know that she was only grasping a few of the words that he was saying. Words whipping past, even with the almighty-echo, she deciphering that was a no-go and she stoically nodded with a smile. 

His sister noticed the lack of communication far sooner than the brother. A small tug on his top, the young man looked down to her before her silence and a point to their visitor. “Ah! I got enthralled in what's been happening that I didn’t even ask what brought you to Namai.”

 

Smiling, she handed over the scroll that she was given. It wasn’t like Hien wrote anything of major importance. “Your lord asked if I could come visit, and specified here. Though… why here. Well, you’d need to ask him.” The warrior teased, a hint of playfulness in there. 

 

“Oh, Lord Hien summoned y--- He summoned you directly?” Isse whispered something under his breath before handing back over the scroll. “Well, I would be lying saying he wasn’t here. Though the home he’s taken for the duration of the festival, right, it’s the largest one here.” He shook his head. “Come, I’ll take you to him. Don’t be surprised though...” Moving closer to the city, she followed with the younger sister in tow. 

 

“Surprised about….what exactly?”

 

The rice farmer shrugged with a smile. “You’ll see when you get there.”

 

****

 

“It seems you have lost again, my good sir. But as testament to our game, here have some mochi.” A resounding male called out. “Who’s next?”

 

Sliding open the door slowly, her eyes peaked in as she saw the messy haired Doman in front of her. He sat in front of a game, one with both black and white pieces on a board. Isse chuckled behind her, mentioning she might want to go in before another game started. It was a game of Go, and quick history lesson courtesy of Isse, could last either five minutes to six hours.  

 

Jaw dropping, she clumsily pushed open the door - albeit a bit louder than she hoped. There were a lot of eyes on her. A few people she had caught before the liberation she could tell, and oh, well, there was Yugiri. Poised. Blade slightly out. Her eyes didn’t leave that blade until the shinobi let it fall back into its sheath just as quick as it had come out. 

 

“Uh… sorry.” Awkward, she greeted them with a soft bow. “H-hi…” There was a large laugh outside. Noting the outburst from outside, only a smile graced her features right now. Oh, the embarrassment was making her face ten red shades darker. 

 

Hands on his knees, the lord picked himself up from the ground, bowing back in return. “Ah, good. My friend, you did receive the scroll in time. I was worried.” He held out his hand, happy to show off the Doman peoples. “We were just enjoying few games of Go. Speed ones, mind you. A few lucky ones even managed to beat me.” Hien’s gaze ended on a Lupin in the corner, who was happily munching on some kind of treat and they stared back as if eating the mochi was wrong. Shaking his head, he lifted his hands. “Perhaps I should give you all a break and we can start again, bright and early at dawn.”

 

There was a collective groan in the room towards their lord before they started to mingle amongst themselves. . The Warrior of Light noticed even Yugiri sighing in disbelief at his antics. Hien lowered his head, whispering something to his retainer. The Au Ra appeared wary but gave a curt nod before disappearing without a trace. 

 

Unlike his normal garb, Hien wore a simple hanfu dyed blue and decorated with gold and silver trim. His hair was not tied up like normal and his locks hung down, messy as ever.  A change of pace for sure from a man she knew to be ready for war, but a good one nonetheless. 

 

Approaching her, the Doman lord grinned, large enough to catch the shy hero off guard and start grinning herself. “It’s been a while, Hien.”

 

“Most agreed. Though perhaps it be best to walk and discuss, as they say at the council meetings back at the Enclave.” 

 

Acknowledging the fact they were in a crowded space, she stepped out of his way to let him go first. ”You know the village better than I. Lead the way.”

 

“Hmm…” Leaning forward, the young lord canted his head to the side. “Stop sounding so formal. A close friend should never act as such. You could perhaps say something to the effect of ‘Hien, how are you doing’ or ‘A pleasure. Let’s talk.’” 

 

A pout plastered on her face, she had a word for him. But not in front of everyone. Her hand snatched his before bringing him away from the bright lights and the faces that could ever be watching. 

 

“Little Shun….” Index finger wagging at his face, she breathed heavily before continuing. “Little Shun… you…”

 

Crossing his arms, Hien just watched the threat she was trying to come up with fall flat. “Oh, you must be very angry to use my childhood name. Perhaps if I was dressed better we could’ve had our spar.” He lowered her finger before pivoting on his heel, his fingers warmly gripping hers as he lead her out the building.

 

The lord was quiet as they walked around the village as she took in the sights, the smells, and everything. Her feet and stomach did the leading around as they stopped at one of the stalls that were set up, lanterns illuminating the savory aroma. The stall owner described his treat as ‘jiaozi’, or as Eorzeans would know, a type of dumpling.  Allowing a taste test, she attempted to take a bite before it just fell to the plate, splatting into the sauce beneath it. 

 

To her side, Hien ate his without a care in the world while she could not even get down one. They were only served 3 a person, but she just looked on at him down the second one. Try as she might, the dumpling would keep slipping and evading its wooden grasp. The result? The dumpling got stabbed in the middle. And it stayed put. 

 

“D-did… you just… slam that into your food?” Hien retorted as he munched on his last one. Smiling, he made no other comment.

 

“Well, you know how to use a chopstick. I’m rather bad at it…and I’m hungry. You just come from Eorzea on a half empty stomach.” Her attempt on the second dumpling was failing like the first. 

 

Shaking his head, the lord took his own as held them between his fingers in order to show her. One higher than the other and one in the crook of the thumb. Copying the other, the woman tried again as it just flipped back into the sauce. Several attempts and different chopstick positions later, failure rates grew higher. 

 

One her last attempt, she grabbed for the dumpling before Hien took it away from her with his own. A master of chopsticks. “The poor jiaozi prefers to not be handled so roughly again. Here, open.” Lips pursed, she refused to open her lips until that determined gaze was there. The only other time she’d seen that recently was.. Well, when they flooded the castle. Mouth opened up wide, she closed her eyes before taking a bite. Embarrassed, she just chewed on it as he dipped it into the sauce again until both the second and third found their way to her stomach. Hien chuckled at her expression when they were finished. “See, that’s how you handle your utensils Much better than destroying the food. Keep that for the real enemies.” 

 

“How you can use them is beyond me. But thank you for the food.” 

 

“Compliments to the go to the master of his trade. Not I.” The Doman bowed his head, her following suit, still not accustomed to how things exactly worked here. They both thanked him accordingly. 

 

The older fellow returned the gesture in kind. “Please, I love seeing other enjoy the food I put my love into.” He glanced to Hien first and then her. “Now, enjoy the rest of the festival, my lord, with your lady.”

 

***

 

Their excursion through the festival, Hien tried to keep up with her as she bought several things in quick succession. Her feet were nimble. “So, what exactly is this festival for, Hien?” She questioned. 

 

“Being the last few days of the year, it is customary for us to have one to welcome the new one. It is for prosperity, longevity and the like. Do you celebrate such thing?” Hien asked as he checked the wares on the stall they were currently at. Picking up a ornate and detailed fan for himself, the lord awaited her answer. 

 

“In Eorzea we celebrate it but it’s usually Starlight that’s more important. We exchange gifts, eat merrily, and all that. The new year is just the new year. I guess we just hope it isn’t as bad as the one before.” Cynical, but the truth, she found a tiny dog statue. It looked like those ones that were popular in Shirogane. Slipping some money to the vendor, the warrior of light took it with her. 

 

Hien sighed at her response. “That’s it? Just a normal day for you? But the start of a year should prepare yourself. ” 

 

Did she say something wrong? Holding her tongue for a minute, she had to think carefully to not make it sound like this was overkill. Of course both places had their traditions. “Yes, it is. Perhaps it’s been like that for a while. Not exactly sure why we celebrate certain things to begin with and the like.” She placed her hand on his shoulder. “Though, for being something Doma and I am guessing Hingashi does as well, it’s fun to see what you include at your festivals. Well, except maybe the one food stall with the weird looking meat. Otherwise, it’s been enjoyable so far.” Even if Doma’s was relatively small compared to the latter nation due a rebuild, they still managed to have enough to show off to any other place. 

 

He was quiet again. In that thinking mode. Whenever he became silent from their time before invading the castle, it was always about something. 

 

Beckoning her, he found one more stall that was serving desserts of some sort as their walk seemed to be finishing soon. Lanterns were becoming increasingly dark as they walked further from the center. Hien ordered an order of dango the both of them and a fresh mochi for her. 

As she munched on the rice cake, she looked to Hien before speaking once with her mouth full. “Nrrr arttttin’ rit.” 

 

“Pardon? It seems I do not speak or understand food.” He rubbed the top of her head as she swallowed down her food. 

 

“I said… Not acting right. You’ve been quiet ever since we’ve been going around the festival. I would expect you to be boisterous like when I saw you earlier exclaiming your love for everything here. You’ve been especially low today on what you’ve been doing or where you are.” And another bite of the mochi. 

 

Hien chewed on his dango, a smirk crossing his face. “So, you noticed. I guess I can’t put on a mask in front of a friend without worry. Perhaps I wanted to spend some time without others pushing themselves on me. Day in and out with the council, that’s all it ever seems to be these days. Days I wish I was back on the Steppes with some semblance of freedom.”

 

Her eyes closed slightly as she looked down to her food in thought. “You’ve been feeling like this for a while haven’t you?”

 

The lord paced himself a head of her slightly. “Yes. But now that I am leader of my peoples, what I want and what I need to do are two different things. Perhaps it is times like these I at least feel somewhat liberated from that sense of duty I was taken from for over a year.”

 

In the distance he watched on. Like the day she had met him, overlooking the cliff. Mayhaps he did not always show it, but she knew there was more than just that. He was nervous. Just like when they had taken back Doma for the people. 

 

“Hien…it’s alright.” Swaying on her heels, she glanced towards the sky as lights began to illuminate the sky. “It’s okay to feel like you do. Sometimes, I want to actually just have a place to stay for a long time. An opposite kind of feeling but I know it just the same.”

 

“You truly are magnificent, you know.”

 

Confused, she opened her mouth to question him before the loud blasts from the fireworks started in a symphonic-like way.. “What do you mean, Hi--” She felt his calloused hands against her cheek as she watched him. His expression was soft as they stood there, as flame danced above in spectacular fashion. Her head skipped as he leaned in closer to her. 

 

“We’ll talk about it later.” His answer was brief but sincere. Hien’s soft lips found her forehead as he placed a small kiss. Their gaze never wavered when he pulled back. “By the kami, happy new year. May they watch over you when I can’t.”

**Author's Note:**

> As Yanxia is a mixture of Asian cultures as stated by the developers, I tried using items (not phrases I can’t do justice with lol) from both Japan and China that I was researching. 
> 
> And after playing 4.0, yes I am assuming there is some form of aetheryte travel for the WoL. Considering they have aether up the wazoo, I doubt getting to Doma would be an issue. (With the twins even discussing this being viable for individuals but not massive amounts of supplies, I use that as my proof. xD)


End file.


 

Words stung. Even from an enemy, they hit deep to the core. A savior of the savages, one that could threaten a new found peace… what was exactly your position? Moons ago, you faced a similar dilemma on the roof of the sand-swept city of Ala Mhigo, the crown Prince of Garlemald, suggesting you two were one and the same.  And now again in Doma, you faced a brunt reality from a Garlean conscript. Were you truly a monster like they told you? But… but you had saved so many people - that had to count for something. Right?

 

No, you needed to get these thoughts out of your head. People depended on you. Hien, Yugiri, Alphinaud, Alisaie, and now Gosetsu. Everyone back in Eorzea.

 

Thoughts racing a fulm a second, the realization of arriving at the docks did not strike you until the shipping attendant questioned you about getting on the boat. Five pairs of eyes lay on you, the rain worsening. Still not pulled completely together, you choked on your tears, if only to keep composed. “Ah, yes, yes… Sorry.”

 

Movements not graceful, you tripped over the railing trying to get into the boat. As balance went off kilter, something, or in this case, someone made sure you were study. Of course, it was Hien. The young lord of Doma canted his head back, his own appearance looking frumpy, disheveled with the continuing downpour. “My friend, are you alright? You seem lost in thought.”

 

Though you told them all about what you saw in the echo, you kept your feelings hidden. Strength is what you were known for, and a pillar you had to be. Pursing your lips, that famed stoic, but determined nod was the response. You only needed to hold out a little while longer until you could rest. “I’ll be fine. Just a lot has happened today.”

 

Be as it may, the young lord appeared to not be convinced at the ‘I’ll be fine’ statement yet did not question you further. Brows furrowing, he joined Alphinaud in discussion about what had occured. Yugiri and Alisaie came to your side when he let go allowing you settle down. Praise the crystal the weather provided you with a damp veil.

 

The two women’s voices sounded muffled, your eyes turning to the moon gates  as the boat travelled. Alaise waved a hand in your line of sight, trying to get you to pay attention. “Hello… Warrior of Light are you listening?” A question filled with concern, and… perhaps a hint of sarcasm.

 

“Huh… what? Sorry, Alaise, could you repeat what you and Yugiri were just talking about?”

 

Sighing, the young Elezen repeated their exchange. “Did he mention anything else to you about the prisoner exchange? Anything besides the vision you saw? A--” Alasaise caught herself before asking too many questions at once.

 

Shaking your head, you glanced down, gaze never lingering off your fingers. Your thoughts slide closer towards the darkened abyss again - raising the same questions as earlier. How the mind wished for you to have this constant torture.

 

Yugiri sat to the side of her, arms crossed an contemplating. Even if the weather provided a  natural ambiance, the silence was confining.  But the Au Ra finally broke it - though Alisaie was ready to pounce with more questions. “Perhaps we should let her wait, Alisaise. Can you not tell whatever she saw or whatever he said still tolls her?”

 

While the kunoichi was a woman of few words, those words held merit. Your friend backed down - allowing you to have your space on this tiny boat. The two women continued to talk about the events that transpired with Asahi and the other Garleans from what you picked up on.

 

The conversation drowned out as you leaned your head up, the rain washing over your face. How you wanted to let everything out, but a small boat in the One River was not the place. The boat of people already worried for not just you, but prisoners and Doma at large. Putting any other worry on them clenched at your heartstrings.

 

_It’s okay… just wait until you’re alone. Let it all come out then._

 

Mind blank to keep from the distracting thoughts, you watched the scenery as the ferryman rowed you to the enclave. The two diplomats were serious discussion, knowing fully well Alphinaud and his sister would leave soon to Kugane to keep their eyes and ears in the know. Hien’s gestured the Elezen boy closer, talking about the council and Enclave from what you could pick up.

 

Yugiri and Alisaie’s conversing fared much better to eavesdrop. They currently were on topic of carbuncles and aetherial magicks. Unlike the men, the two women sounded like soldiers that were trying to one up each other on what was the most preferred technique to attack with. A small smile graced your lips as you watched the flickering lights of your destination come into view.

 

* * *

 

Some more time would pass until the group safely landed at the Doman Enclave’s port. The return was met by Hakuro and Gosetsu, who elected to keep Tsuyu out of the public eye for very obvious reasons.

 

“My Lord!” The elder Roegadyn exclaimed, his voice as loud as it could ever be. “We were worried, as time drew longer than we expected. Fearful the Garleans had done something.” Attention focused solely on Hien, Gosetsu anticipated something more.

 

The young Lord obliged that urnest look of his dear friend. “There were some words before his departure. The prison exchange will go on for now as planned. Tis something that we need more private quarters to discuss later.” Arm open to his companions and to the rain, Hien canted his head upward to Gosetsu. “The weather was not kind to us coming back in. And we… are soaked.” A  boyish grin covered his features.

 

Gosetsu shrugged his shoulders, a soft smile to Hien. “We talk when we arrive at the Kienkan then.” He and the lupin stood out of his way as he began to lead the group.

 

As your companions filed past him, he welcomed them back. But with you, he cast doubt on. The start of puffy eye bags, sclera turning pink, and cheeks flushed. Even with night coming soon and rain steadily coming down, your friend pursed his lips, and said nothing. Like with the Dotharl months again, he walked with you, side by side. The size of his hand felt massive as he patted you on the shoulder with soft murmurs of ‘May the kami watch over us all’ and ‘You will be fine. It will be okay.’ You appreciated the he could tell everything was off - especially after Hien’s words earlier and that Gosetsu, like Yugiri, let you have your space.

 

The sprint back to the Kienkan was silent except for everyone’s footsteps against the ground . The streets were empty, the villagers already in their homes awaiting the storm to pass.

 

Stationed at the entrance, a guard called back that the lord and company arrived back. Something about warm clothing, towels, and…. Well, whatever the last thing were all you could hear from your position.

 

You honed in on that door, even if you were lagging behind the others. That building meant home while in Doma. A home meant a room for yourself where this damned mask awaited its time to be ripped off.

 

At the front, Hien disappeared into the home first. Yugiri, then Alphinaud and Alisaie. Hakuro followed. The elder retainer and you made it in last.

 

Two servants lined the door, handing each person, a towel, and… some intricate, circular thing. Placing it to the side of your face, it warmed the skin. Ah! It was a heating stone. Closing your eyes, you stayed near the entrance once you had your fill.

 

Whatever discussion was to be had about the Garleans would be for later, once everyone had time to relax and warm up again. But you refused to join another meeting about that issue this night.

 

The group had started to disperse except for Hien and Hakuro. While you tried to sneak past the two, the Lupin nodded his head to the much, much smaller lord of his. Hien raised a brow, unsure he was getting at. Rubbing his face, Hakuro lifted his shoulder before flicking his head back towards you direction. You eyed the furry beastman before you scuffled way faster.

 

To your anguish, the Doman lord caught on quickly to the Lupin’s hints. Maybe heading this one direction would get him off your heels. No, no… you heard sticky feet moving across the tatami. Both of you were still soaked to the bone. Couldn’t he wait ‘til morning? But if the Hien wished to talk now, who were you to deny him just a short one.

 

He called out your name, but you kept walking until the turn to a hallway. A small poke of your head out, you stay close to the corridor wall as you waited. At least if you were going to get forced into a conversation now, it would be semi-private instead of having the servants and the rest of the Kienkan hear.

 

“My friend, you’ve been quiet ever since we left.” Like during the Liberation months ago, his tone was even, gentle, and reassuring. Hien kept his distance as he talked, keeping your personal space sacred. “I know Asahi is someone less than desired to be around - after what you told me, and you everyone. Tis a good that we will not have to see him for a few months.”

 

You twitched, flicking your head to the side. Gods, you did not need to be reminded. The man’s words still dripped through you like a poison, silent and ever spreading. “ Of course, it should give everyone time to prepare and rebuild. P-perhaps…” Shaking your head, you needed to find a way to get this off-topic, fast. “W-we should probably change before both of get a cold, yeah.” You stammered, almost inaudible to anyone but yourself.

 

The young Doman lord was taken aback, leaning inward - closer - much closer. Apparently he had not understood the first time. Holding the yukata towards him and pointing towards his own, you repeated. “We should change. I don’t think Yugiri or Gosetsu would be please if either of us, especially you, were sick.”

 

A deep breath, Hien faced defeat, hand on his hip while he shook his head. “Ah, you speak truth. The chastising from the two would be most unbearable. Mayhaps we discuss further later then?”

 

“Later is fine. Time to think and warm up will be good for the both of us.” The thinking worried you. Even now, it was hard to continuously keep up this facade. Weather still continued to be your friend, even inside. You looked like a complete mess, and Hien fared no better.

 

Bowing his head, his green eyes came into contact with yours. “Until then.” He pivoted on his heels, walking towards the area of the Kienkan that presumably held his sleeping quarters.

 

You stood in silence, letting the servants walk past. Friends nowhere in sight, the supports that kept you together until now gave way.

 

Sniffing you rushed through the remainder of the corridor. With head hanging downward, you bumped into several servants on the way, fumbling with your items twice before they fell. “S-s-sorry…” High pitched, almost unrecognizable, you continued on as the servants gossiped amongst themselves. What did you care - no one knew why you were like this. Domans kept more quiet about someone else’s issues, for the good and bad. None would care in the morning.

 

Hand flubbing up on the sliding door, you groaned, facing the largest obstacle. When hand and mind worked correctly, you managed to open the door before securely shutting it. How you cursed them for having no way to lock these doors like back home in Eorzea.

 

Waving it off, your body worked in auto as you stripped yourself of wet armor and undergarments before putting on the yukata.  No expert in obi tying, it got the good-old fashioned Limsan knot.

 

You were alone. This was how it should be.

 

The last support of stability broke as strength turned into sorrow and apprehension. You were a pillar to all, that eikon-slayer. You had power were others did not. You symbolized a hope the peoples of the world did not have in years.

 

Shaking, your lips trembled as tears rushed down your face. Biting your lip, you tried to keep yourself quiet. But those dark questions you kept yourself from answering earlier crept back, latching onto your every thought, spinning themselves around your emotions.

 

But that strength - like Asahi had proven - painted you as a monster. What happened when you lost control? Would you turn on the very people that you helped? You sure had killed enough Garleans and Beastmen. You had slaughtered men that, upon a return to a snowy, city-state, only did as their leader, the archbishop had told them. How many people had sacrificed themselves for you? And how many more would give themselves up for this hope your name had promised?

 

The emotions spiraled out of control. Picking up your greaves, you slammed them back into the rest of your armor, letting the metals clash against each other. As if your thoughts teased you, it reminded you of home, friends, and family that had to deal with your actions and consequences. Like a journey, you body went into auto-pilot. Missives from Eorzea in the corner, you read over each one. Words of well wishes, gratitude, and thanks. Teeth clenched, you took one scroll, then another ripping each apart. “Why? Why do you trust me so damn much. Stop! What a load of bullshite.”

 

Pacing around the room, the state-of-mind got the better of you.

 

Wailing, you dropped, knees slamming to the ground. “Damnit. Damnit all.” Fingers running through your hair, your internal turmoil becoming more aware to everyone in the general vicinity outside. “Why should I feel damned guilty for what I have done? But…. it’s my fault! All of it! I’ve had at least two damned people...“ You clenched a fistful of hair into your hands. “...Give up something for me… What about the people I’ve killed? Haven’t they had families too? Weren’t some of them not even bad enough to be killed!? Why?!”

 

One final push. “Hydaelyn. Tell me! What have I done to deserve this!?! Should I not have joined the Scions? Why me? Why…? Why couldn’t I just live normally without this interference?” Your following words became incoherent wails and sobbing.

 

Streaks down your face, you crawled, letting your temper tantrum subside. The load off your chest, your body and mind cleared up. But going from zero-to-one-hundred and back to zero left you weak. Scrambling to your futon, you fumbled with the covering. You slid only in as best could.

 

The rain still continued. Its soft rhythm outside let you focus, your eyes drooping downward.

 

* * *

 

The Warrior of Light’s breakdown did not go unnoticed. One of the servants panicked, unsure of what to do as the woman sounded irreconcilable. An open ear the servant would get.

 

“It would seem that she was not fine. How much burden do you bear to not even your closest of friends?” Lips gracing the cup of tea, their attention focused on the corridor were the famed warrior slept. “Later is fine you say. We shall see if that hold true, shall we not?”


	2. Uncertainty

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> Even the most confident can question if the right decisions were made. Even if they are a Lord.

“Lord Hien!!”

A servant girl, no older than twelve summers, called out to the leader of Doma as she jumped in front of the council’s doors. She pleaded with the guards to no avail yet was determined as his name went onto repeat. Her supervisor came, trying to get her to quiet down. “Lor-” The girl’s mouth was covered in an effort to not bother the lord.

The door slide open. The young lord canting his head back to the side - watching the scene in front of him. It appeared he had changed from his wet clothing from earlier to deep blue yukata and gray haori. “I thought I heard my name being called. Pray tell, what is the matter that I need to be called so?”

The elder woman sighing in disbelief their Lord responded to a child’s calls. “Please do not mind Machiko. She knows and doesn--” Machiko tried speaking - muffled due to her superior’s meddling.

Crossing his arms, Hien lowered his gaze. “Let her talk. No one here calls me unless there is urgency.”

Being let go, the girl defiantly held her head up - her lord finally giving her a chance to speak. “The lady… What’s her name…?” Machiko paused before telling him the Warrior of Light’s name, pronunciation broken but a good effort. “All I heard was scream-ming and c-crying! I know she is an honored guest and I d-didn’t know what to do.”

“Crying? Screaming?” Unsure of how to react, Hien loosened up his stance. His attention went to the baseboards before he turned his gaze back to the girl. “Well, that will be something I will need to talk to her about - later.” Hands to his side, he bowed his head to Machiko. “Thank you, little lady, for letting me know. This information is most important.” Hien’s last words snapped back as if chastising the servant that had stopped her in the first place.

“Go, both of you. Night draws upon us and young ones should get their rest.” The young lord dismissed them both.

\----

He headed back into the council room where both Yugiri and Gosetsu had awaited him. Hakuro appeared absent. Perhaps the Lupin had gone off with some of his fellow kin. The two that remained were looked in a debate about certain persons.

“Gosetsu, will you not listen? That woman will turn against us, and you are too soft.” The white- horned Au Ra pleaded.

The Roegadyn dismissed her plight as he downed a saucer of sake. He poured himself another one, as neither had seen Hien return yet. “But Lady Yugiri, did you not hear what I told the young master earlier? For whom does the fault lie? Right now, her mental state is no more than a young child. Would you want to feel the guilt on your shoulders?”

Yugiri shook her head, biting her lip hard. “That is not the p-...Lord Hien.” Bowing her head, the conversation ended.

“Please, you two need not stop because of me. Though my stance is firm on the matter of Yotsuyu, it can still freely be discussed.” Hien remarked, sitting down between the pair.

Taken from his tea earlier, the young man poured himself a hot cup as his retainers stay quiet. While Yugiri’s silence was standard and fitting for a kunoichi, Gosetsu’s absent voice worried him. As he took a drink of his tea, Hien muttered something to himself. His eyes watched his muddled reflection, trying to grasp what he was just told.

“How much burden do you bear to not even your closest of friends?” Lips gracing the cup of tea, his attention focused towards a familiar corridor of the Kienkan.

“My lord?” Yugiri inquired. “You’re talking to yourself. Did something happen? The servant calling you was distressed. Perhaps I should have…”

Placing his tea on the table, he held up his hand. “Ah… well…” How to word it without causing too much concern. “The strongest of us have times where only the kami knows how they truly feel. Time will allow the feelings to subside.”

Lifting up his cup of sake, Gosetsu bobbed his head up and down. “Here, here. You speak truths. As old as I may be, that is a lesson to learn early. The earlier the better, I say.”

Yugiri did not question him further, and Hien could see she had figured out who he was referring to. She sat across from the men, deep in thought again.

As the rain continued to strike the home, Hien glanced towards the outer walls. Mind wandering, he thought back to his discussions with Alphinaud and his responses for Asahi. Were they the correct ones? Should have consulted Yugiri, Hakuro, and Gosetsu more? Gaze moving between the two retainers here, the lord shook his head before he downed the rest of the tea. His position was absolute was it not? No, that would mean him no better than the Garlean emperor then. Alphinaud had given him advice and he based his decision on what was given.

Rubbing his brow, Hien sighed heavily - frustrated at himself. His decision made him question himself. Damned it, he should have waited to give an answer with more input. “Yugiri? Gosetsu?”

“Yes, my lord?” Yugiri snapped out of her thoughtful trance, inquiring back. Her eyes were wide, mouth pursed. The elder retainer put down his glass, hand on his knee, silent as if Yugiri had already asked what was on his mind.

Closing his eyes, Hien took a deep breath. “Was my decision the correct one? Am I doing the best for the people?”

Gosetsu picked himself up, straightening his posture. “You did as best you could with a situation you were given, my lord. As much as it pains me to say, even I must agree with you on the situation with Tsuyu.” His hand clenched as his own yukata as he spoke.

Yugiri waited until the other was finished before speaking herself. “While mine and Gosetsu’s conversation was, yes, about Yotsuyu earlier, it seems we both understand the situation at hand. And after hearing about Asahi’s past from the Warrior of Light, it is only normal to question such things. Perhaps when the exchange happens, we keep our eyes out.”

Hien gave both a warm smile, but his heart still was not at ease. Of course, he was their lord. They would say little if there were issues and only spoke up - like Gosetsu had- when something did not sit right with them.

“I will take your words to heart that I did make the right decision,” Hien reassured them, though he masked his discontent with that boyish smile of his. “Mayhaps I am overthinking. These past few days have been cumbersome, questionable, and thought-provoking if anything.”

Neither retainer knew what to say and let him be, pardoning themselves from the council room. It left the young lord alone to his thoughts.

These days he had been talking with Garleans, ones harbored a hate for yet he allowed them into their doors. Because of what? Tradition? Asahi played on this simple fact and Hien accepted it. Did he fall for it? Only their exchange would tell.

“Father, mother... What would you have done?” Silence answered back, reminding him that he was now alone.

Hoisting himself up off the ground, Hien paced the room. His eyes watched an invisible path, bittersweet memories of him as a boy with his parents back in Doma Castle. Boisterous, loud, questioning every single thing his father and mother did. Hien laughed, holding himself as he looked at the painted folding screen to the back. “How I must’ve sounded back then…Father had to deal with the Garleans daily and Mother... How she had a much harder burden to bear with him and myself.”

Someone grunted outside the room, their voice muffled. “Kaien and Mina did what they could for you and Doma with the little power they had you know.”

Peering out the door, Hien eyed the Roegadyn. “I thought you had gone to bed, old friend.” The gray-haired elder denied ever stating as such - only leaving the room. “Come, Gosetsu. Let us talk elsewhere. It seems our weather has lightened up.”

\----

The two men moved to the outside garden to continue their discussion. Servants were hustling about, though not one made a peep as they worked.

Standing on the edge of the veranda, Hien grabbed one of the servants coming, asking for a tokkuri and saucers to go with it. His retainer questioned not as his lord’s gaze was towards the sky. Silence consumed them both until one spoke up to the other.

“Gosetsu. You know, you always remind me that I was a stubborn child. Even with the Garleans here, why do you think that was? No father around for years because of them - yet they let a prince roam free.” Hien pondered. Holding a flat hand out towards the sky, he felt the droplets.

The Roegadyn laughed at the mention of his childhood. “Such serious talk inside yet you bring up your youth, little Master Shun.” Hien twitched at the mention of the name again. Everyone still was determined to make use of it again, weren’t they? “To be fair, I question that myself. Though I have had to work under them, one would assume they would want to kill off the heir to the throne early. Perhaps having your father captured for as long as he was may have been the reason.”

Sighing, the Doman lord acknowledged that possibility looking back and the recent past. “To let me grow up and then try for my head later was their plan it seems. That still solves little for the past.”

“Lord Hien, it is odd to see you dwell on the past so. Especially when there you need not have any worry except for what is at hand.”

A few tokkuri accompanied the saucers when the servant came back. Hien bowed his head, giving him dismissal for the remainder of the evening. He poured himself one and Gosetsu before taking a drink.

“Mayhaps I am trying to justify my actions from the last few days. Perhaps figuring out what my fat--”

Gosetsu laid his hand on his shoulder, shaking his head. “Your father was a strong man, there is no doubt. But remember his reign was a puppet regime. His words meaningless unless the Garleans had given their consent. He did what he could with the situation he was given.” Slugging down two cups of sake at his pause, he closed his eyes before smiling down towards Hien. “You will have a much different take on what to do than what your father had. You have more freedom, more chance to grow. Lord, Hien, you are not stifled like your father was. Options are plenty - and you do seek counsel before your decisions. Mayhaps it was with this Asahi you felt like there was not enough time to garner council’s advice.”

Hien held his hand up. “You aren’t wrong. Yugiri encountered more of our Garlean ambassador’s actions than I. Only words I have to off of. And by the kami, a friend has learned more about Asahi than we would have ever known.”

“You speak of who?” Gosetsu asked curiously.

Hien raised a brow towards him, unsure if Gosetsu had an inclination of what transpired from Yugiri. “Ah, forgive me. The Warrior of Light. Apparently, he had more words with her than we know.” He kept to the truth, omitting the vision she had seen from Asahi.

“Ah, the silent hero of Doma.” Gosetsu grinned before it faded just as fast as it hit his features. “From what our friends have told us, she has been through much herself. Eorzea seems to sing praises, but that comes at a cost, do you not think? It puts her in the same position as you, now that I observe it. Fates of others resting on both your shoulders.”

“So, I have heard.” Hien laughed, taking another sip of sake from his cup. His gaze became lost, remember back to a time in the Steppes. A good friend made the same observation during their confinement.

Silent they stayed, drinking nothing but the sake to pass the time. Hien’s mind still fiddled around with questions that had few answers to them. Gosetsu broke their unspeaking bouts talking about his time working for the Garleans, his wife and daughter, and some garbled mess of words about some game he challenged a traveler to way back when. Smiling, Hien kept his drinking to a minimum this night - for neither the situation nor this weather called for an excess of it.

As Gosetsu’s state deteriorated into a sobbing mess of old war battles and swaying movements, the young lord took the tokkuri from him and set on the floorboard behind him. “My friend, it seems you drank too much.”

The gray-haired man squinted at him, speaking somewhat coherently. “Doing good, my lord. People - they happy to see you and a rebuild.” He sighed, almost tripping as Hien made sure to keep him up. “Maybe no castle… no past history of it, but you lead well. My lord gives the people… good moral.”

Tucked under his one arm, the hyur helped walk him towards his room - though several servants needed to help him along the way. “Mayhaps my worries will dissipate with time, Gosetsu. But for now, thank you. For encouraging me that my actions were the correct ones.”

\----

Once his retainer got to his room safely, Hien closed the door - left alone to his thoughts again. The halls began to empty as most went to their chambers to sleep, only some guards here and there still awake for night duty.

His walk back towards his chambers was slow. A deep breath, Hien kept an air of confidence about him. From a day so volatile like today he had to. Gosetsu’s words had comforted him to an extent. Though in the back of his mind, he still felt a feeling of dread.

There were still other matters to attend to. The rebuilding and letting those who had fled know they could come back home. Perhaps those could clear his mind - if only for a little.

The Doman lord leaned his head backward, knowing a certain shinobi had been around. He commented to both her and himself. “We shall have to wait and see what happens, shall we not? And perhaps, to contemplate what it holds for us.”

Already in his mind, there was one particular person he needed to talk to. And to understand what was going on.

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> I apologize for how long this chapter took to come out! I had written a good chunk of this right after the first chapter. However, midterms and schooling took me away from getting this updated on time. 
> 
> I hope you enjoy!

**Author's Note:**

> During my final cut scene of 4.2, I did get the blessed weather of raining. That's partially what made me think of writing this fic. It also made me think of what kind of emotions that the Warrior of Light would also go through when faced with the notion they are considered a monster of sorts. Asashi's one of the first people to bring this up to the Warrior of Light and its the first time where, while having full autonomy - we are unable to do nothing but watch him leave. (Personally, I just wanted to punch him the entire time during the story, but that was just me.)
> 
> Futhermore, you probably saw in the tags that this is supposed Hien/WoL Reader fic. But there was not a lot of social interaction between the either party. This was done intentionally as I believe a slow romance builds more stable romance. Needless to say, as I write more chapters, the two will interact more as they struggle with their own issues and ones that they are expected to do. 
> 
> Thanks for reading!


End file.

**Author's Note:**

> Set pre-Stormblood. (Disclaimer:Pleaseforgetthatf'lahminnisinthavnair)  
> The Warrior of Light wasn't in a position to notice Thancred overworking himself way back when. The Scions... were. Now they both are.

Thancred was doing a very good job of having no one notice, or rather, his symptoms weren’t obvious enough for anyone _to_ notice.

He was quite relieved by that, actually, because while he cared for Tataru and Lyse dearly, their constant crooning would have probably been too much. Actually, no—Lyse would have most likely just laughed at him. Still, he did not want anyone to worry—even Y’shtola had borne a flattened countenance the last time he had been sick, and Thancred had felt like an imposition the entire time.

Of course, Minfilia had been there last time, and, well…

She had noticed—she had never failed to. And, gods, Thancred still _missed_ her, terribly—

But now was not the time to think of such things.

The front door jostled audibly, and Thancred nearly looked up from his reading at the sound, but then it opened—and that would be Ikael, back from training, with sore fists unable to turn a doorknob properly. It was not an irregular occurrence.

Surely enough, Thancred heard a muttered hiss before the door closed again, and reflexively smiled to himself. Fever or no, the thought was still amusing.

“Ah—do we have any extra ice?” Ikael spoke up, making his way over to where F’lhaminn was rubbing down the bar. “If not, that is fine.”

“We do, dear. Give me a moment to wrap it up,” Thancred heard F’lhaminn sigh. “Don’t want you giving yourself frostbite again from impatience.”

“Thank you,” Ikael said. After a minute or two that sounded like F’lhaminn going through her cupboards and shuffling about, he thanked her again.

Thancred looked up when he felt Ikael approach Y’shtola and himself, apparently determined to prod at them for conversation. Ikael was holding his right hand in a loose grip, gingerly pressing the wrapped ice to it—his left was red and swollen, but only slightly. He seemed physically tired, but otherwise his usual cheerful self.

“What are you both so focused on?” he asked, cocking his head.

“I am studying an ancient Padjali technique on aetheric transference through meditation,” Y’shtola replied as Ikael perched himself on the arm of a nearby chair, “And Thancred is reading something trite.”

“It is not trite.” It was trite. Although, truth be told, the words had been blurring into each other for a while, which in combination with his warm headache meant that he had been doing nothing more than idly staring at a page for the past hour. “It is poetry, beautiful and grand. A taste of the finer pleasures in life.”

“I’m sure,” Y’shtola said dryly, turning a page in her book.

“Poetry?” Ikael slid off his seat, moving to Thancred curiously. Then he was close, pressed against the back of Thancred’s chair as he tried to make out the words on the page. “Ah,” he said after a minute. “‘The ocean’s rolling caress,’ huh? Missing the proximity of the sea?”

“Hm?” Thancred shifted his grip on the book, which had gone lax in his hands, and squinted at the page. The title of the poem read _Love as a Rocking Boat._ “Oh. Not really, I suppose. There are too many things to focus on, here.”

“Are there?” Ikael looked at him shrewdly. “You don’t seem to be very focused.”

Thancred was somewhat surprised he had noticed, although he supposed he was being a bit hazy. “I find my mind drifting,” he replied, folding the book shut. “And, uh, I suppose it was getting a bit trite.”

“That so?” Ikael leaned forward, pausing for a long, strange second, before he straightened up and squeezed Thancred’s shoulder. “Come on; I want to talk to you about something.”

“I am all ears,” Thancred said, getting up. He had to steady himself on the back of his chair as a wave of dizziness washed over him, but it passed after a moment.

Ikael closed his fingers briefly around Thancred’s wrist, readjusting him, before letting go.

Y’shtola hadn’t reacted much during their exchange, except to make a small smirk when Thancred had admitted to his inferior reading choices, but she spoke up now. “Don’t let him keep you up with anecdotal sob stories about how he failed to woo some maiden with his terrible poetry,” she said.

“I won’t,” Thancred promised, and Ikael laughed, tugging him away.

~*~

“What is it you wished to discuss with me?” Thancred asked. Ikael appeared to be looking for somewhere specific—in fact, he seemed to be leading Thancred to his chambers. “Something private?”

“Not really,” Ikael said ambiguously. “Here.”

They had indeed stopped outside of Ikael’s room. Ikael reached for the handle, then remembered his hand and, after deliberating for a moment, wedged it down with his elbow.

“I hope you haven’t brought me here just because you cannot open a door,” Thancred said, eyeing him in amusement as they stepped inside.

Ikael squinted at him. “Shut up,” he said cheerfully. Thancred chuckled.

“So what did you—ah— _what are y_ —”

Ikael had grabbed his arm and pulled, swiftly. Thancred felt himself totter unsteadily as the room spun around him, the dizzying feeling accentuated by a red pulsing behind his eyes. He stumbled, nearly falling, before he felt two strong arms catch his weight and seat him gently on the bed.

He blinked rapidly, trying to think past the hot flash in his skull, but before he could gather himself, Ikael had pressed a palm to his forehead.

“You’re sick,” Ikael said.

Damn. “I…” Thancred closed his eyes, willing his vision to steady. “I’m just, ah… a bit light-headed…”

“Here.” Thancred felt Ikael move away, and then there was a cold glass of water being pressed into his hand. “Drink.”

Thancred obeyed gratefully. The cool sensation that spread through his limbs was a welcome relief. “Thank you,” he said sincerely.

Then, strangely, the glass was being pried from his hands. “What—”

“You can have the rest when you admit that you’re sick,” Ikael said. He sounded far too content for someone who had just stolen Thancred’s only source of relief.

Thancred sighed, opening his eyes. The room was no longer spinning, although the end corners of it were a bit blurry. At the far wall stood a small cooking station—Thancred stared at it, wondering idly when Ikael had commissioned it.

He saw Ikael’s hand reach for his forehead again, and batted it away with a small frown. “Stop that,” he muttered.

“Mmhm.”

Thancred sighed. “I assure you, I am quite alright,” he said. He knew that if he admitted to his illness, Ikael would refuse to leave him be until he recovered. While it had been surprising but… nice, admittedly, when Ikael had noticed he was ill, he could not steal more attention from the man. Twelve knew the Warrior of Light had more important things to do than nurse Thancred’s ego.

“Thancred,” Ikael said pointedly, “I can tell you’re ill.”

“I’m not—”

“You have a fever.”

“I do not—”

“Not acknowledging it won’t make it go away.”

“I’m not acknowledging—I mean—I—there is nothing to acknowledge!” Thancred slumped, tired and confused by the conversation already. If it weren’t for the headache hammering nails behind his eyes, he was sure he could have made sense of it. As it was, he did not know what he was saying anymore. “I… gah—’m not sick.

“No?” Ikael’s voice was softer, and Thancred felt his eyes flutter closed as a cool hand pressed gently against the side of his face. “No,” he confirmed.

“I see.” Was Ikael speaking even quieter now? Thancred could still hear him, but the words did not make the cotton in his skull hurt. He was grateful.

“Your water will stay here, then,” Ikael said, and then there was a sweetly cold surface being held to his forehead. Thancred let out a little sigh.

Then his eyes snapped open. “I—” he started, and Ikael gave him a hard look.

Thancred sighed once more, finally conceding. “I have a small fever,” he said quietly, “But it is just that. A day or two and I shall be fine. There is no need for you to trouble yourself.”

“It is no trouble,” Ikael said, and handed him the glass, which he took hastily.

“There, was that so hard?” Ikael asked, watching Thancred as he drank. “Slowly, now.”

“Thank you for the patronizing, but I can handle myself,” Thancred said, letting a bit of a bite seep into his tone. He felt bad, but if a few short words were what he needed for Ikael to see no need to continue this, he would say them.

Ikael leveled him with a flat stare, and said nothing. Thancred shifted uncomfortably as a minute passed and he still hadn’t moved.

He shuffled his feet guiltily after it became too much. “Sorry,” he muttered, gaze cast down.

“Apology accepted.”

Thancred expected Ikael to leave him after that, and so was surprised when he simply shifted closer, a warm smile lifting his eyes.

“I’ll get you a wet cloth,” he said, pitching his voice low. “How are you feeling? Do you have a headache?”

“I—” Ikael’s concern was—kind, and pricked a spark of hopeful warmth in his chest. Thancred gave himself a mental kick. “Really, Ikael, ’tis nothing severe. As I have said, a day or two of rest should have me up to working standard in no time.”

“I don’t care about working standard,” Ikael said, instantly crushing all hopes Thancred had been harbouring about this being impersonal and thus not making him feel like an affection-starved child, “I care about your wellbeing. So tell me: headache?”

“Ah…”

“And don’t think there’s any way you can worm your way out of this,” Ikael said sternly. “Whether you like it or not, I am sticking by you until you recover completely. There is nothing you can say to sway me.”

“Apparently not,” Thancred muttered, feeling mostly guilty, but also aware of a creeping sensation of warmth that had nothing to do with his fever. “Well, if you will not leave me be… yes, I have a headache. It’s gotten worse since this morning.”

“This started in the morning?” Ikael queried. At Thancred’s nod, he added, “How much worse?”

“A significant amount,” Thancred said quietly. “I could not focus enough to read, and every word spoken at normal volume feels like a shout.”

“Alright,” said Ikael. “Here,” and Ikael’s now mostly melted ice rag was being thrust into Thancred’s hand, “Hold onto this until I can get something for you.”

He rose off the bed, and Thancred watched as he puttered around the room, bringing a clean washcloth to the culinary station to wet it. “You do not have to do this, you know,” Thancred said mutedly, a final effort, because he knew he had to.

“I know,” said Ikael. He retrieved the cloth and went back to Thancred. “I’m doing this because I want to,” he said as he held it up.

“Lay down,” he ordered. “And perhaps remove the blindfold, if you wish to—it won’t get wet, and this’ll work better.”

Thancred obeyed, closing his eyes as he sank into the pillows and telling himself that no matter how comfortable he was now, this was Ikael’s bed, and there was absolutely no possibility of him staying in it once the man himself needed it. Then there came the welcome coolness of a damp cloth being laid on his forehead, and he sighed in contentment.

“I’ll make us dinner,” he heard Ikael say, “But you don’t have to eat it if you don’t want to. Stay here while I fetch some salt—I appear to be out.”

Thancred wasn’t aware of Ikael leaving the room, only of the thick, stifling heat in his body casting a haze over all his senses. He felt himself sink into it, and then the next thing he knew he was shivering, strong tremors wracking his frame. The bedsheets were twisted—he was under bedsheets? When—?

“Thancred?” There was a presence nearby—Ikael, he remembered—and Thancred opened his eyes blearily. The room seemed to have gotten darker, lit only by a slow-burning lamp and the light of the cooking fire, its embers still smouldering. Ikael was kneeling next to him, concern and gentleness lacing his features. Thancred groaned.

“What…” The word came out as croak. He cleared his throat.

Suddenly there was a glass of water being held out to him, and after a little maneuvering, Thancred took a large draught of it. He shivered.

“You fell asleep.” Ikael had settled himself cross-legged on the bed. Thancred noticed that his hands were bandaged. “Are you feeling better? Because I hate to say it, but you look worse.”

“I…” Thancred trailed off. How was he feeling? He frowned, making to get up—and immediately fell back down as the room swam. His fingers loosened around the glass, and Ikael caught it just before it spilled.

“I feel cold,” Thancred said hoarsely. And weak, he didn’t add. That was the last thing he wanted to admit out loud, although he knew he must look beyond pathetic at this point. He could still make a pass at holding on to his dignity.

“Cold?” Ikael frowned hesitantly. “Thancred… you’re burning up. We need to get your temperature down—I have to get Y’shtola—”

“No!” Thancred said. Too quickly, but he didn’t care. He could not inconvenience yet another of the senior Scions. “I have had worse; this is manageable.”

“Mm.” Ikael looked unconvinced. “Either way, I—” He cut himself off with a pained look as Thancred failed to suppress a shiver.

Thancred burrowed further into the blankets, then remembered that this was Ikael’s bed and he couldn’t stay in it, and pushed them down. He shuddered at the rush of air that met him, sending chills through his body, but steeled himself against it.

“I have to…” he started, attempting to haul himself up. He squeezed his eyes shut against the dizziness and managed to hoist himself up into something of a sitting position, but then Ikael pushed him firmly back down.

“No,” Ikael said shortly.

“But—”

“No protests.” Ikael frowned at him. “You are not leaving the bed until I say so, and you are _definitely_ not leaving the room unless it is to move to the infirmary. I don’t care where you want to go.”

“It’s your bed,” Thancred protested, voice weak.

“I can manage,” Ikael said. “Failing that, we can share—although even if you do feel cold, I hesitate to raise your body temperature any further. Are you hungry?”

Thancred couldn’t be bothered to be confused about the abrupt change in topic. “No,” he said, “But I will eat.” He knew he had to.

Ikael moved away, and came back with a hot bowl of broth and a spoon. He helped Thancred to sit up, and watched him closely as he ate.

“It’s good,” Thancred murmured around the heat in his hands (how Ikael had managed to keep it warm was beyond him, but he did not give it much thought).

Ikael quirked a smile. “I _know_ you can’t taste it very well,” he said. “Nevertheless, I shall take a compliment when it is due.”

Thancred chuckled weakly. “Humble, aren’t we?”

Ikael leaned back against the headboard, stretching his legs out. “Someone has to keep my inner culinarian’s ego up,” he said. “Most people somehow care more about the eikon-killing than the quality of my lamb stew.”

“Surely, your talents are wasted as a warrior,” Thancred drawled. Then he glanced down to where his meal lay half-finished. “I think I am done,” he said quietly, an apology already on the tip of his tongue.

Ikael did not admonish him for not completing his meal, nor did he reproach him. He simply said, “Alright,” and took the bowl away.

Thancred felt a surge of gratefulness for his quiet friend. Although Ikael did tend to keep his opinions to himself, Thancred was most certain they were ones he would find agreeable.

“Are you tired?” Ikael asked him softly, and at even the suggestion, Thancred felt his eyes closing. Ikael was so… so kind, and the broth had been warm, and…

“Sleep well, then,” said a voice, and Thancred barely registered himself being gently laid down and tucked in, and a comforting presence curling up next to him, before he was fast asleep.

~*~

Thancred jolted awake mere hours later to darkness, feeling like death frozen over. He croaked helplessly, reaching out blindly to a faint heat near his side—and came into contact with something that felt warm and solid. Shivering, he tried to grasp it.

“Wha’?” a voice mumbled, and then the solidness was moving. “Thancred?”

He knew that voice. “’kael,” he identified, and smiled. He liked Ikael. He was brave, and kind (if a bit soft), and a good hugger.

“What is it?” Ikael asked. “Do you need something?”

“Cold.” Even as Thancred said the word, a harsh chill racked his body. He exhaled shakily.

“Oh.”

Ikael started moving again, and then he was pressed up close to Thancred, and there was an arm resting on his chest and a warm, warm line against his body. Thancred shivered and instinctively pulled him closer.

“Is this good?” Ikael asked, and Thancred managed to nod absently, forgetting that there was no way Ikael could see the motion in the darkness.

“Okay,” Ikael said softly, knowing somehow anyways—Ikael always managed to do things, which was pretty impressive, really—and then he moved a bit and there was a small weight resting on Thancred’s shoulder and something furry brushing against his chin.

“Hm,” Thancred said, to tell Ikael, and the furriness twitched. Thancred gave a little grunt of surprise, decided he didn't care, and brought a hand up to pull Ikael’s arm closer to his chest before falling back asleep.

~*~

Thancred awoke to the feeling of an aching, bone-deep weariness permeating his body, a harsh pounding in his skull, and someone cuddling him.

Under any other circumstances he would at least have some smart comment to make about the latter point, but right now all he could think about was the fact that he was a disgusting, sweaty mess, he felt like death, and the scorching heat of Ikael’s form meant he couldn’t breathe properly.

“G’morning,” he croaked, carefully pushing at Ikael. “Off, please—need t’piss.”

“Oh!” was Ikael’s response, and he bolted upright in a motion that Thancred almost found comical. “Yes, of course,” he said, and scrambled off the bed before freezing in the middle of the room, looking confused and half-awake at best.

Then he slowly pivoted on his heel to face Thancred.

“You’re sick,” he said.

Thancred found it in him to be amused. “Yes,” he said.

“Okay.” Now Ikael was moving around, too quickly—Thancred eyed him lazily, unsure of what was going on. “Shit, you felt like a _furnace_ , Thancred—Y’shtola is going to kill me. I’ll run you a bath, and you’ll hate it because it’ll be cold, but you need it, alright? Are you hungry?”

Thancred stared at him, sure that he had been asked that question possibly less than ten minutes ago. “No,” he said.

“Excellent, I’ll make breakfast.”

Ikael helped him out of bed, and then hovered around him when Thancred muttered something about being able to walk to the bathing room _himself_ , thank you very much, and then he drew Thancred a bath, and then Thancred shut the door in his face.

Two minutes later Thancred yelped. The water was cold.

~*~

There was a change of clothes and a clean towel waiting for Thancred when he nudged the door open, and he blinked at it for a moment, utterly confused, before shrugging and dragging it inside to put on. It was only when he was plucking at the top with the dubiously low neckline that he realized Ikael must have picked it out, and smiled. The man had a… questionable taste in fashion, to be sure, although at least his subligar days were over.

The stone wall outside the bathing room was cold. Thancred leaned his head against it—just for a moment, of course. A trickle of water ran down his neck from his hair, and he exhaled wetly at the sensation.

“Thancred,” said a familiar dry voice.

Thancred startled, reaching out a hand to steady himself against the wall. Y’shtola stood there with her hands on her hips, eyeing him with a frown. Beside her, Ikael was shifting his weight from foot to foot, nibbling at his lip nervously. Thancred narrowed his eyes at him. Traitor.

Thancred sighed, and gave a little half-bow to the best of his ability. He did not want to fall over. “To what do I owe the pleasure, m’l—”

“Can you handle him?” Y’shtola appeared to be speaking to Ikael.

Ikael squinted at Thancred. “I’m definitely stronger than him right now.”

“I am _right here_ ,” Thancred groaned. “And keep yer bloody voices down. S’no need to shout.”

“Someone’s irritable,” Ikael said, detaching Thancred from the wall and taking his weight easily. “I’ll pretend that all I heard was ‘mumble mumble mumble,’ since that’s what you sound like.”

Thancred could _elocute_. “No,” he muttered, because it made sense. “Why’re ye so _bumpy_?”

“Get him to the infirmary, and I’ll take a look at him,” Y’shtola said. She might have added something else, but Thancred had discovered that Ikael’s hair was very soft, and made a nice face pillow. It almost made up for his bumpiness.

“Those are _muscles_ , Thancred,” Ikael complained out of seemingly nowhere. “I’m _strong_. I am an available, attractive young miqo’te with a lot of personality.”

“That sounds rehearsed,” said Shtola, who was maybe not as nice but had pretty eyes. Thancred couldn’t hear her too clearly because someone was buzzing heat at him, which was very rude.  

“… eventually. Why didn’t… sooner?”

“… insisted… out of bed.”

“He’s not even… about to collapse...”

“ _Shh!_ ” Thancred hissed at them, which took a lot of effort, enough that he fell, but it was onto something soft.

He nuzzled into the softness—a pillow—and grunted in annoyance when someone tried to press something to his mouth. He wanted to sleep.

“Drink it and I promise I shall leave you be.” That was Shtola, and for a moment she sounded mellow enough that Thancred complied. She said something along the lines of “Now you can rest,” but Thancred was already asleep.

~*~

This time when he awoke he felt scratchy and weak, but with a decidedly more regular body temperature.

His eyelids felt glued together. He unstuck them with minimal effort, blinking rapidly at the dryness of the air. His mouth had a bitter taste to it, and his muscles felt sluggish, but when he sat up, the room did not spin. He was in—the infirmary. Oh.

“Careful there,” came Y’shtola’s voice, and Thancred glanced over to see her sitting cross-legged in a chair by his bedside. He would have thought she looked normal except for the wayward strand of hair brushed hastily to the side, the wrinkles in her normally kept tunic, the tinge of tiredness to her gaze.

“My lady,” Thancred croaked dryly, and then cleared his throat. Y’shtola passed him a glass of water—the same one as earlier, probably—and he took a few careful sips.

“Y’shtola,” he tried again, and the word came out easily enough. “I thank you for… seeing to me. You did not need—”

“Stop,” she said, holding up a finger. “Thancred…” She glanced down, mouth pursed. When she looked up again it was… to his shoulder. “At first I told Ikael off for not bringing you to me earlier, but then he,” she frowned, barely, “he pointed a few things out to me. And he was right.”

Thancred did not know what she was talking about—he had been in no state of mind to eavesdrop on them. “I am afraid I do not know of what you speak,” he said.

She sighed. “You have been harder for me to see,” she said, “As of late. Any aetheric flux of your person is minimal, but still, I should have noticed you were ill.”

He frowned at her. Was that it? “Y’shtola, do not concern yourself with that. I was trying not to let anyone notice; even as a healer, you were not at fault.”

There was a short, heavy silence, and Thancred knew that his words had reminded both of them of the same thing. He winced. “It was a fever. I was not liable to… I was not overworking—”

“Even back then, I should have noticed!”

He stared at her, startled by her outburst. Such a thing was atypical of her. Y’shtola composed herself quickly, but when she continued, her voice was firm.

“Forgive me. I am… somewhat tired. No—Thancred. Let me speak. We did not check up on you then, we did not pay your state enough mind, and look what happened. And now, if _Ikael_ of all people noticed something was wrong, I most definitely should have. And… I am not just speaking as a healer.”

Thancred's brow creased. “Shtola. I should not be a bur—”

“ _Accept_ an apology, you self-sacrificing oaf,” she snapped.

He blinked, and she stared harder at his shoulder, and then, after a few, precious moments that dangled forever in the air between them, the tension in the room broke, and Thancred leaned back on the headboard and laughed. Y’shtola rolled her eyes, but started to chuckle as well.

“Ah… Twelve, you should have seen Ikael. He was acting as if you were liable to drop dead at any moment. I had to threaten your wellbeing to get him to leave you be so I could work. Oh, speaking of—”

She activated her linkpearl. “Ikael?” she said, “Thancred is well enough for you to come in, now.”

A moment passed and she frowned. “Ikael?” she repeated, “Are you there?”

Thancred had a suspicion. He switched on his own linkpearl. “Ikael!” he barked, “Wake up.”

 There was a sudden crashing noise from outside the room, and then Ikael stumbled in hurriedly, looking dishevelled. “What, what? Did something happen to Thancred? Is he—”

He stopped when he saw Thancred eyeing him with an amused expression, and then _beamed_. “You’re awake!” he said, immediately scrambling over. “Are you feeling better? Do you want some water? Are you hungry? I have a maple almond pie cooking in the big oven for you, but it’ll take some time—”

“Calm down. I am indeed awake and feeling better, but I would appreciate it if you spoke quietly, and in slow sentences,” Thancred said, if only to make Ikael not keel over in his franticness.

“Oh! Sorry,” Ikael said, pulling up a chair. He folded his hands together over his lap. They were bleeding somewhat.

“The fever has passed, but Thancred still needs to rest and recover,” Y’shtola told him. “You are improving in bedside manner, Ikael, so I shall allow you to help him if you so wish.”

Thancred mock-groaned. “What have you condemned me to?” he groused. Then, to Ikael, “If you try and cuddle me again I am pushing you off the bed.”

Ikael raised an eyebrow. “Me?” he questioned. “’Twas not I that initiated it, as I recall. Oh, and did you know you have the most… _darling_ accent when you are sick? It’s like your drunk one, but more difficult to understand.”

Thancred grunted. Ikael’s face was pleasant enough, but the words sounded mocking. “This is the only accent I have.”

“…Ah,” said Y’shtola.

“‘Yer a r’el bumpeh pilloah, ‘kael,’” Ikael imitated. “‘Yar.’”

Thancred was scandalized. “I did not say ‘yar.’”

“I’m improvising,” said Ikael, while Thancred shot a subtle glance at Y’shtola. She seemed to notice, and shook her head. Of course. He had never been a _pirate_. That… had been _one_ time.

“Go see to your sugary treat,” Y’shtola ordered Ikael, “And let Thancred recover. He should be mostly better by tomorrow, but for now he needs rest.”

“Yes, of course,” said Ikael, getting up. He shot Thancred a smile, which he returned, and made to leave.

Y’shtola called out after his retreating form, “And for _gods’_ sake Ikael, wash your hands.”

~*~

**Author's Note:**

> The WoL was both away from thancred for most of 2.0, and didn't know him well enough, I think. But hey, it's been a while since then.  
> This marks the end of all mostly-written fic i have (that i want to post)! They keep getting lighter, haha. I have one more major idea, and then we'll see!
> 
> [ hint](https://draw-you-coward.tumblr.com/post/169169240667/happy-new-year-3) for next fic if u'r interested (i made it for new year's but it still works)


End file.

**Author's Note:**

> MAJOR SPOILERS for the lvl 70 Dark Knight quest. Written ten minutes after completion of said quest. Emotional word vomit.  
> I stole a line from the game for this and I hold no claim to it.

He did not know why he chose to go to the Rising Stones first, of all places. Maybe there was… he just needed…. He did not know. Gods, he felt so… so _lonely_ , and miserable, and defeated and they had lost so much… _he_ had lost so much, apparently, although even at that thought he cringed at being the focus of attention.

He pushed the door open, still wearing his armour, still feeling his sword heavy on his back. He had never told them—they did not know—and… he had manifested Myste out of his own soul crystal, out of his aether, so much like a primal yet so different. Would they see? Would they tell? He did not care. He needed… something. Someone. Please.

He let his gaze sweep around the room, met their eyes, searching. A few of the Domans were there, and while they blinked confusion at him, they did not see why his presence was unordinary. Such friendly strangers. F’lhaminn was not present, Urianger was not there—did he need Urianger? Did he _want_ Urianger? He did not know. Did he care about him? Yes, he—he felt it, a pang, a ghost of the future, for when that day inevitably came—

No. No more. He would stop that.

A swallow, still looking around, and—

“Ikael?” Thancred, giving a curious glance at his armour, studying it briefly before looking up at him and—oh, his face had creased in concern, just a little bit; did his feelings show? Were his emotions manifest on him right now? If he tried—no, if he hadn’t tried, could he create another Myste?

 _Was_ it concern? He—he hoped, please. He needed—he just needed—

“Is aught amiss?” Thancred again, walking towards him since he had said nothing. Ah. He should move. He did, relaxing his posture, pretending for a moment everything wasn’t swirling about like a storm—the coldest Coerthan blizzard—

—Oh. In his skull.

 He moved forward, met Thancred halfway, and closed his gauntlet around Thancred’s arm. Firmly. He could feel the flesh through the gloves, or at least the give of his skin.

“Ikael?” Thancred, again, sounding—worried? Was that it? Ikael looked at him, confused, tumultuous, not knowing what to think, to feel. He felt... _so_ much—was the Warrior of Light supposed to feel so much? The Weapon of Light?

He did not know how to do this. He did not know how to speak. Not truly. Even back then, it had been Fray—and now, Myste, he supposed. He frowned at Thancred—a worried frown, not an angry one. His mouth he let open, and he searched for words. None came, immediately. He was worried. Was he worried?

“You are beginning to worry me,” Thancred jested, unconsciously using his own words. Ikael looked up at him, into his visible eye, tried to see into his emotions. Were they as deep as his own? As much of an abyss?

He could not see. Yet, Thancred could see at least partly into him. He let him, stared, hoping that this communion would open a door to him so he could be allowed to see both ways.

It did not. Thancred started to frown back, even as Ikael’s own silence rang out. Louder than the clearest bell. Deeper than his heart.

“Ikael, what is it?” Thancred asked. “What happened?”

“Are you worried?” Ikael said back, his voice finding him and jumping ahead. “ _Do_ you worry?”

“I am right now,” was Thancred’s reply. Oh, was he talking about him? That was… so sweet. Good, he cared—please don’t die. Please.

“Please,” Ikael said. “I could not take it.”

“Take what? What are you saying?” He still held Thancred’s arm in a vise-like grip. Thancred said, “I think you should… sit down. Here—”

He tried to lead him to a chair. Ikael followed, confused, and did not sit.

Thancred was beginning to look frustrated. “What happened to you?” he asked. “Did you get hit in the head? Were you overconfident in that shiny new armour you’re sporting?”

He had stared deep into the abyss, and it had stared back. He said, “You,” realising something.

“You have lost people, haven’t you?” he continued. Thancred’s frown slackened. “Do you see them? In a procession?”

“All lined up, to the executioner’s axe,” Ikael said. “Do you wield it?”

Thancred looked at him. He looked back. Thancred said, “Come. Here is not the place.”

Thancred led him to a room with books and clothes and hidden knives. Thancred’s room, he realized. It smelled like him; his scent was lingering in its corners and tripped into a discarded shirt on the floor. Strange. Ikael picked it up.

“Ah—forgive the mess,” Thancred said, and sat down on his bed. There was no mess. Nothing else was out of place. Ikael sat next to him.

 He took off his gauntlet, passed the shirt between his fingertips to feel the fabric.

“I would keep this,” he said, “If you died. Something of yours.”

“I do not plan on dying,” Thancred said. Ikael looked at him.

He wanted to ask a million questions. How did it feel like to lose Minfilia? How did it feel like to be alone? To be possessed? To feel the weight of your sins crushing you? To surrender into despair? Do you fear, every passing moment of every passing day, that you will be the one to rend your loved ones’ souls from their living forms? He had so many questions. Thancred would not answer them all, he knew. They were too personal, not his right to know. Still, he would try some. He said—

“Please don’t,” he said, and his voice cracked.

Gods. Godsdammit. Please. Please.

 He threw off his other gauntlet, ran his hand up Thancred’s arm. Thancred, who was watching him with quiet, knowing eyes.

“Please,” Ikael said, uselessly. He was useless. What was he doing? What was it all for, if they all left? If he failed them all?

“I am not going anywhere anytime soon, Ikael,” Thancred said, gaze softening at him. “Not into the Void, not into death.”

“You will,” Ikael said, because it was the truth. “And I will have sent you there.”

Thancred shook his head. “No,” he said.  

“Yes,” Ikael argued. “Woe betide the man who stands with the Weapon of Light, for death will be his reward. Death for him and his kin and all that he holds dear.”

“And if we did not have you?” Thancred said. It was a challenge, an almost angry one. “How much death would we have suffered? How many of us would have greeted black halls?”

Ikael shook his head. “There are many that see their end from me,” he said. So many. It pained him—why so many? Why did he kill so many? “You will, too. Eventually.” Eventually. Not soon, not ever—if he had any say in it—but alas, he did not.

He could only pray. Thancred said, “My death will be my choice.”

Ikael’s soul twisted. “Please don’t ever die,” he said. “Please. No more.”

His voice might have twisted as well, for Thancred moved closer to him, and his face was—compassionate.

“I am sorry,” he murmured, and Ikael did not cry out, but he wanted to—Thancred said, “If something does happen to me, Ikael, it will be by my hand. And the only role you will ever play in it,”

He leaned closer. Ikael looked at him, helpless. Thancred said, “Will be the role of a saviour.”

Ikael grabbed his own breastplate and pulled, tried to wrench it away in one movement, even if he could not. Thancred helped him; calm hands, nimble fingers, and then Ikael was wearing only his undertunic, and he was shaking, violently, and grasped out.

Thancred caught him, took Ikael’s arm in turn and caught his wild gaze while he pulled him closer. Ikael wanted to scream, to cry—he did neither of those things. He always wanted to scream and cry, maybe. He did not.

Instead he shuddered, shook, let Thancred’s grip turn into a gentle embrace, and let himself hear soft noises and perhaps feel comfort. For here was an arm that was reaching out, here was a friend to brush away the edge of loneliness.

“I’m sorry,” he said—choked. Thancred hushed him. He said, “I’m sorry, I’m sorry—please, forgive me—”

“There is nothing to forgive,” was the reply. Thancred stroked his shoulder, a soft touch on the gutting of the blade—and Ikael—

—Wanted to

Sob—

He said, “I’m sorry, please don’t leave me. Please don’t die. I can’t—”

“Shh,” said Thancred.

“Please,” Ikael echoed. He did not know what to do.

“It’s alright,” said Thancred.

Ikael choked on a breath, and coughed it out with a gasp.

“You don’t have to always be strong,” Thancred said. “I’ve got you.”

Please. “Can I—” He needed to ask. Did he need to ask? “Please—”

“Yes,” said Thancred.

Ikael sobbed.

He cried, and he gave in, fell weakly, helplessly weeping. Thancred shushed him, made quiet noises, was perfect. So perfect, and amazing. Please don’t die. Please. I love you.

He was slumped against Thancred, mostly not carrying his own weight, head on Thancred’s chest. The arms around him were not his own. He hiccupped, small. Thancred hummed a short tune at him.  

“Please,” he said.

“I promise,” Thancred said back. “And when I break that promise, it will be mine own fault. Not yours. Never yours.”

He had a few tears left in him, apparently. He sniffled. “Thank you,” he said.

Thancred pressed his chin briefly to the top of his head. “Any time, Ikael,” he said quietly.

“We will always be there.”

~*~

 

 

 

**Author's Note:**

> thancred's just sort of there lol I feel like he's one of the only people who isn't in some degree of quasi-hero-worship haze about the WoL  
> i had a lot of feelings about stuff i was Sad so i wrote this to cope


End file.

**Author's Note:**

> short, sweet, and fluffy. enjoy!

“You are… the sweetest person,” Thancred croons, swaying into Ikael.

Ikael catches him with minimum stumbling. “Oh _noo_ ,” he says back. “You… _you_ are. _You_ are the sweetest… _everything_.” He feels himself start to tear up.

“Please kill me,” says Y'shtola.

“How long will they… stay like this?” Alisaie ventures hesitantly. She looks as if she does not want to know the answer.

Ikael coos at her—Alisaie is such a _dear_. All of his friends are… so amazing.

“I do not know exactly,” he hears Y’shtola say, but he is not paying attention to her, because Alisaie is so _nice_ and _good_ —he pets her hair lovingly. It is fluffy.

“Uh,” she says.

“The dosage of potion that was put into their tea was not too strong,” Y'shtola is still talking, “From what I can gather. With what I have done to reverse it… I would say roughly an hour or so more of this… behaviour remains.”

“Oh, great,” says Alisaie.

“You are,” Thancred tells Y'shtola, “ _So_ smart. So smart. And also—”

“I am going to stop you right there,” she replies, holding up a hand—which is mean, because Thancred is _right_ —she is _so_ smart, and such a good person, and her tail is pretty— “No. Whatever trite nonsense you were about to say, you may save it. How did this even happen? Do you not know better than to accept any drink that is handed to you?”

Ikael pouts, because _that_ is not fair—he has been drugged… a lot, and Thancred says that he is “gullible and thus easily preyed upon” (which doesn’t sound too nice but Ikael is sure that he meant it in a friendly way), so it is… not his fault. Right. People should be… _nicer_.

“I know what happened,” Ikael interjects before Thancred can say any more things that Y'shtola does not want him to—he looks like he is about to. And Ikael _does_ know what happened.

Mostly.

~*~

       It is Valentione’s day in Gridania—the day of everlasting love, of skirt-lifting romance, of passionate embraces—and Thancred is… inside, doing nothing, staring at five perfect rows of pink frosted cupcakes that his (available but definitely not romantically interested) friend has apparently made for just the two of them.

“So… I decided on vanilla,” Ikael says after Thancred has spent an entire minute saying nothing, “Because chocolate would have been too rich, and strawberry too sweet, you know? And besides, they would have both clashed with the icing.”

Ikael’s knowledge of colour theory is… limited, Thancred knows. He stares at a perfectly made pink swirl.

“Uh…” Ikael continues awkwardly, “And vanilla is a… an empty palate, you know? It’s, um…” He ducks his head to scratch at his ear, “impressionable? You can make impressions on it? Is that how…”

He trails off. He hadn’t used _any_ of those words correctly, Thancred thinks absently.

“Please say something,” Ikael blurts out.

“Hm?” Thancred looks up at him. Ikael’s gaze is bright and worried, and his tail is twitching nervously. “Oh! Yes, they look perfect, Ikael. Well done.”

Thancred smiles. Ikael looks even more worried.

“Is it… the pink? Do you not like the colour pink?” he asks anxiously. “I know it’s Best Friends Day for us, as we had agreed—” Ikael had spontaneously decided that, Thancred thinks in amusement. “—but pink is a nice colour, right? A-and it’s everywhere right now, and—oh no, should I have made them red? I’m so sor—”

“Ikael.” Thancred plants his hands on Ikael’s shoulders before he can blabber himself into a nervous breakdown. “They look incredibly appetizing, and I do not know how we shall eat…” He does some quick multiplication. “…Thirty cupcakes by ourselves, but we can most certainly try. I was, ah… merely reflecting on the circumstances of my… of _our_ current situation.”

“Oh, okay,” Ikael says. “And, uh… I guess thirty is a bit much…”

Thancred nods, a little fervently. It is a _lot_ much.

“… But we can… share them? I just…” Ikael hesitates, glancing down. “I don’t really like having romance shoved in my face at every possible opportunity on Valentione’s day. Although… people might think we are a couple and leave me alone.”

People will _definitely_ think they are a couple. Thancred hums in agreement and says, “They always do. ’Tis no matter, my friend—it is a day to celebrate and have fun! If you do not wish to partake, that is of course fine, but you might be missing out.”

Ikael looks indecisive, but Thancred gives him a ridiculous look and spreads his hands, and he seems to slowly give in.

“… Okay,” he says hesitantly, eyes unsure but open. “If… you say so. I trust your judgement, Thancred.”

“Ha,” Thancred says nervously, suddenly a whole lot more apprehensive about the whole situation. “It will be fun, I promise. And it is the day of love! What could possibly go wrong?”

~*~

“Oh, there—a child.” Thancred points, and Ikael spins around. “He’ll want one.”

“What is a kid doing out on Valentione’s day?” Ikael hisses, but jogs over to the child nevertheless. Thancred follows, quickly snagging one of the few remaining cupcakes before the handsy little grubber can take all that is left.

Ikael does not even have to open his mouth before the child lights up.

“Cupcakes!” he exclaims. “Oh, can I have one, Mister Cat Man? Please?”

“Aha, sure!” says Ikael with a stretched smile, and Thancred grins in delight. A _Doman_ child, then, apparently come all the way from Mor Dhona for the festivities. It is a stroke of luck—Ikael had been… _so_ accommodating to all of the pestering and tail-tugging when they had first arrived at Revenant’s Toll.

The child takes a cupcake and immediately starts licking at the icing. Ikael laughs, evidently charmed despite the nickname (although he had to be used to it by now).

They give the last two cupcakes to a grouchy-looking couple arguing by a bright red heart balloon—the look on their face is worth the sacrifice of sugar—and then Ikael is needling Thancred about having something to eat.

“Well, you should have eaten your own food,” says Thancred, crossing his arms.

Ikael raises an eyebrow. “You only took two,” he points out. “You have to be hungry as well.”

Thancred had taken three, actually, but he is not going to tell Ikael that. “It is all overpriced, anyways,” he declares, waving his hand dismissively. “You can probably cook… hey, where are you going?”

“They have a _discount_!” Ikael says excitedly as Thancred runs to catch up to him.

“Who…” Thancred peers ahead. “That is for couples, Ikael. We’re not—”

“Do you want cheap food or not? Hold my hand… here. Ew—your palm is sweaty.”

“That is you, not me. Ikael, we’re not a—”

“I’m _hungry,_ Thancred. Get over yourself.”

Thancred sighs dramatically. “You are so cruel to me,” he mutters, but does not protest otherwise, because the food _does_ look good and the couples discount marks it as half off, apparently.

“Hello!” Ikael chirps at the vendor. “This is my lover, Thancred, who is very handsome and good in bed. May we have cheap food?”

Thancred feels himself die a little inside. Subtlety is… an art form, and one that Ikael apparently lacks any skill in. However, the pink, red, and white-clad elezen simply looks at them in surprise, then laughs good-naturedly.

“There is no need to reassure me, my dear!” she says. “I can tell, with the way you two are all over each other.” She winks, and turns around to pick out two miq’abobs from her display.

“Uh,” says Ikael, exchanging a glance with Thancred, who shrugs. He does not mind. They are standing fairly close together, after all.

“The miq’abobs are complimentary for miqo’te couples,” the vendor, whose nametag reads _Suzanne_ , says to Ikael. “Although even if your… boytoy,” she winks, “is not one, I shall give you an extra because you just seem so sweet. I saw you handing out cupcakes earlier! That was nice of you.”

Ikael stammers, going a bit pink with… indignation? “Thancred is not a ‘boytoy!’” he exclaims, and Thancred does not know whether to laugh or cry. “He… has a million redeeming qualities, and he’s always very sweet to me—except when he’s being an arse—and he’s _lovely_ and gives very nice hugs, and—”

“Ikael,” Thancred says in gentle amusement, “it is alright. She was not being serious.” Ikael looks at him in dismay, but relaxes when he sees his expression.

Thancred shakes his head with a chuckle, and turns to Suzanne, who is regarding Ikael with a bemused smile. “Thank you for the miqa’bobs. May we also have… that fried dish right there and… what do you want?... Okay; and that one, please.”

While Ikael fishes for his coin purse, Thancred easily counts out and hands over the proper amount of gil. He takes the food, thanking Suzanne, and drags Ikael away by the elbow.

“Wait! I have…” Ikael is still, now somewhat frantically, searching for his money. “I can pay you back for that—I swear I brought it…”

“You probably forgot,” Thancred reassures, subtly shifting his own coat to make sure Ikael’s coin purse is still in it. Yes—he can feel its shape. “’Tis no matter—you are not good with money, anyhow. Why, you would probably want to buy up half the festival to distribute to the Scions!”

From the look on Ikael’s face, he had planned to do just that. Thancred feels suddenly grateful for his roguish talents. “You can pay me back for the food later,” he assures, entirely intent on forgetting the matter.

Ikael sighs and grumbles a little, but Thancred waves the miq’abobs in his face, and he happily takes one.  

They sit on the railing of a little bridge a ways away from the festivities to eat. Ikael happily tears meat and tomatoes off the miq’abobs with his teeth, tail swaying cheerfully behind him, and Thancred eats his food at a more moderate pace, because _he_ is not part animal.

Fresh green water rushes below them, and around and about, the sounds and smells of the festival are vibrant and alive. Ikael kicks his legs and licks the grease off the miq’abob sticks, Thancred makes a face, and Ikael laugh and pokes him with one. It is pleasant fun, and Thancred is glad they went out. Best Friends Day indeed.

“Ikael Jelaar!” someone yells as Ikael is attempting to prove to Thancred that he can balance on the tiptoes of one leg without using his tail. He yelps, flails, and starts to fall.

Thancred leans forward and catches him, hooking his ankles around the railing’s support and grunting when the stone digs into them at a painful angle. Ikael quickly and deftly climbs back up.

“You cheated,” Thancred tells him, tipping his chin at his tail. Ikael sticks out his tongue in response.  

“ _Ikael_ ,” enthuses the newcomer, running up to them without waiting to be noticed. She is another elezen—gods, they’re everywhere today—dressed in loud, bright clothing, holding what appears to be a large and flamboyant lute.

“Uh…” Ikael gives her a quick once-over in the way he does when he is trying to remember someone. “… Louisette?” he ventures.

She spreads a hand on her chest. “You remembered!” she exclaims with a wink. “I am _flattered_. And who is _this_ handsome hyur, hm? Have you finally found someone?”

“Uh…” Ikael winces. “No, this is my friend Thancred—”

“ _Just_ a friend?” Louisette winks again, and offers Thancred her hand, which he takes with a kiss.

“Pleasure to make your acquaintance, my dear lady,” he says.

“Oh, a charmer, is he?” Louisette raises her eyebrows at Ikael, who smiles uncomfortably. “I am unfortunately taken, but really Ikael, you need someone to give you _oodles_ of love and attention! I have never met another man who so desperately cannot be single in my _life_.”

She finishes this last statement with her hands on her hips. From the look she is giving Thancred, it is awkwardly clear that she is either expecting him to agree, or to suddenly jump up and declare his undying love for a very dear, very close… _friend_.

Thancred exchanges a discreet glance with Ikael, and begins to gather up their garbage. He should probably stay out of this.

“I remember you now,” Ikael says. “You were that… uh. That _person_. Listen, um, Louisette, I… appreciate your opinion, but really, I am perfectly happy by myself. I have friends.”

 _Ooh_. Wrong thing to say. Thancred bends down to pick up some litter that had fallen by the edge of the railing.

As Thancred expects, Louisette continues to provide her unsolicited advice. “Friends?” She clicks her tongue. “Oh, you poor little kitten. Friends cannot hold your hands and shower you with kisses! Friends cannot give you the _love_ that you secretly _crave_ —”

“Louisette,” Ikael says pointedly, sounding uncomfortable, “It is… nice to see you again. But you are being…” he glances at Thancred, who shrugs. “… inappropriate. I can assure you that I am quite content as I am.”

He is on a roll! Thancred squeezes his tail lightly as praise.

“If I am truly ‘craving’ any love, I can go to a brothel,” Ikael continues, and Thancred nearly hits his head on the railing.

From the look on Louisette’s face, she had not expected him to say that either. Ikael straightens up, apparently gaining confidence, and keeps going.

“Thancred is _not_ my type,” he says. “I mean… I don’t think I would sleep with… Ugh, actually. No.”

“Hey,” Thancred interjects, because that chips at his ego a bit.

“… Oh, _gods_.” Ikael seems to have dug himself into an inescapable mental pit. “Ew. _Ew._ _No_. No. Definitely not, actually.”

“Okay; the extra words are a little redundant.”

“I mean, I actually _know_ you now. _No._ ”

“You can stop at any time. I think she gets it.”

“You are not even that attractive! And the bandana makes you look old.”

“No, really. You can stop.”

“Gods, you’re… _old_ , aren’t you? Didn’t you say a while back that you met F’lhaminn fifteen years ago? How old are—”

“A _hem_.” Thancred cuts him off loudly. “My dear lady,” he says to Louisette, “I apologize about Ikael—that is to say, about _this_ part of the conversation. But I can assure you, if your interests _are_ for his happiness, that he gets a lot of attention—far too much, probably—and is heavily doted upon whenever he bakes anything sweet. He is fine.”

“Do you think Simeon would… be down for it?” Ikael wonders out loud. “Or up for it, I supp—”

“ _Terribly_ sorry,” Thancred says, gently escorting a stunned Louisette away, “’Tis one of his bad days. You know how miqo’te can be.”

“—I _heard_ that, you decrepit old _arse_ —”

“Have a nice Valentione’s day with your partner!” Thancred waves her off cheerfully. “Do try the miq’abobs—they are quite good, or so I’ve been told.”

He goes back to Ikael, who has sprawled himself out along the railing. Thancred sits next to his head and scratches at his ears briefly as acknowledgment.

“I want to relax,” Ikael says, looking up at him, “After that. Ugh—I am so _tired_ of people badgering me about my love life! I am happily single! No, I am not miserable! Why does everyone think I am miserable?!”

Thancred hums sympathetically as Ikael pouts. “We can go to that quiet little area over there, hm?” he suggests. “It appears to be some sort of café—you like those kinds of places, right?”

Ikael sighs and sits up. “Huh,” he mutters, looking over at the area Thancred has pointed out. A polished wooden board is peeking out from behind dense green foliage. The writing is illegible at this distance, but they can see a few tables scattered about behind it, the people seated at them speaking intimately but quietly, and the entire setup lacks any loud and glaring shades of pink. It looks rather calm, compared to the rest of the city.

Ikael agrees, and they make their way over. They are directed to a small drink counter of made of rich, dark wood, manned by a solemn-looking lalafell. He looks up at them with a smile as they approach.

“Good afternoon, sers,” he greets in a surprisingly deep voice. “Fancy a sip of Sakura tea? Guaranteed to make you feel sweet.”

“Hopefully sweet enough to be single on Valentione’s day and not be pestered about it,” Ikael mutters, and the lalafell laughs, rich and soft.

“Definitely sweet enough to make being single a non-issue,” he replies, which will strike Thancred as an odd thing to say when he thinks back on it later, although at the moment he does not pay the words much heed. “Ten gil a cup, thank you!”

Thancred slides twenty gil across the counter, and the lalafell takes it with a wink and a small bow. He pours out two small cups of a pink, sweet-smelling liquid, and sprinkles something bright and aether-tinted into them. When Thancred looks, the tea is clear.

“Special ingredient,” says the lalafell when he catches his glance.

“Thank you,” Thancred replies, taking the cups. “My friend really does need this. He is a high-strung sort of fellow, you know?”

He dances out of the way of Ikael’ swipe, darting over to a small table for two. Ikael joins him, and sniffs at the tea before taking a careful sip.

“Sweet,” he comments as Thancred follows suit.

~*~

“That is _it_?” Y'shtola interrupts, crossing her arms. “You tell that entire, pointless story, just for the _actual_ reason to be ‘We bought the tea because we wanted tea.’ Really?”

Ikael holds up his hands. He is doing his best! “I am sorry my non-dramatic tale does not meet your standards,” he says. “But really, that was all that happened.”

“I agree with Y'shtola,” Alisaie says with a frown. “Oh come now, you could not have made something up? I thought for sure Louisette had cast some sort of bardic curse of true love on you or some such… ah… nonsense.”

“Someone reads too many romance novels,” Thancred teases with a wink. Alisaie makes a perfect, indignant scoff.

“ _Someone_ overcompensates,” she returns.

“You two are lucky it has mostly worn off by now,” Y'shtola tells them. “Elsewise, Ikael, I fear you would be left with no end of clinging admirers. Or no dignity. Either one.”

“Are you saying that _my_ talents would not garner me admirers?” Thancred questions, raising an eyebrow.

“You would have gotten yourself thrown into the river,” says Y'shtola.

Thancred pouts good-naturedly, and they laugh at him. After a moment, he joins in.

“Well, I am glad you have decided you do not need a romantic partner to be complete,” Alisaie tells Ikael with an amicable smile. “After all, you have us, do you not? And Thancred, I suppose.”

“And you are all more than enough,” Ikael says, smiling back at her and ruffling her hair. She sighs good-naturedly, but does not reach up to fix it.

“You are such a sap,” Thancred complains, rolling his eyes. “Come then, let us grab what useless pink souvenirs we can before the celebrations come to a close. Apparently there is a flying chair somewhere…”

Ikael doubts that. However, he is with friends, and they are all happy, so he will endeavour to enjoy Best Friends Day to its fullest extent.  

~*~

**Author's Note:**

> not every story has to involve murder or deep-seated psychological issues! yay
> 
> (want a valentine? want to give the weenie a valentine? [ tumblr ](http://draw-you-coward.tumblr.com/):)


End file.

“Lay her down, quick!”

Ikael obeys, laying the girl on the ground, heart caught in his throat, and Thancred anxiously kneels next to her. She can’t be more than twelve or thirteen, a small hyuran girl wearing singed clothing with dirtied cheeks and fingertips. She is unmoving.

“Come on, come on, open your eyes,” Thancred mutters, pressing against her wrist for a pulse. Ikael looks up anxiously, and Thancred breathes out a nod. She lives.

Behind them, the small wooden shack groans and collapses, the last of the smoke gasping out into the clouds.

“I can’t—Ikael,” Thancred implores, and Ikael is already putting his fingertips to her chest, closing his eyes and focusing on channeling his aether into her. He is far from a healer, but he can do more than Thancred right now, and they need _something_.

Ikael closes his eyes, concentrates—and his vision goes murky and pulsing with unawareness. He pushes forward, seeking the girl’s presence—there! An echo of a person.

He sees a woman, and for a moment his mind takes her and superimposes his own memory, of soft brown skin and orchid black hair, and Ikael pulls away from it with a jerk. Whoever the original woman is, she must have a strong connection to the girl—her sister, perhaps? No—her… her mother—Ikael frowns; he has to _focus_ —

The girl’s eyes flutter open, and Ikael breaks contact with a gasp as he feels her aether clutch at his, tearing from him. She is awake. She is awake…

“Shh, sh! Be calm,” Thancred says, as she keens and reaches out with her hand. He catches it in his, and molten brown eyes lock onto him. The girl freezes, stares… and gradually calms.

“We are not here to hurt you,” Thancred says, ducking his head to meet her gaze, and her eyes flit to Ikael almost in surprise before looking back at Thancred. “I am Thancred,” he continues, “And this is Ikael. We found you in that house over there… I am sorry, but you were the only one in it.”

Ikael sighs softly. It is hard, but they have to tell her—if she starts asking about her family members—

But she frowns. “I know,” she says. “I was living alone there.”

Ikael looks at her in surprise. Thancred, too, tilts his head.

“My name is Aviesha,” says the girl. “Thank you for saving me—I do not know how long I must have been in there.”

Ikael and Thancred exchange glances. “Are you… alright?” Ikael ventures hesitantly. She does not seem… very shaken. He tries, “I saw a woman in your mind. She looked like you, but a good deal older—wearing a sack dress and—”

“That is _none of your business_ , miqo’te!” Aviesha hisses, and Ikael withdraws, startled.

“I-I am sorry,” he says, holding up his hands, “I did not mean to pry. I was… do you have any family to go to? Anywhere we can take you?”

Aviesha glares at him, then looks at Thancred, who is still holding her hand loosely. She says, “I have family. Up north.”

“Are you comfortable going to them?” Thancred asks quietly, and Ikael glances at him in surprise.

Aviesha nods. She tries to get up, and Thancred stands and helps her, supporting her by the elbow as she takes a few shaky steps. Ikael hovers a few fulms away, not wanting to put her ill at ease.

“How far is it from here?” Thancred asks, and she squints.

“A few days,” she says, “If I do not run into anything. When I usually make the trek I can steer clear of the wolves, so if you two can keep up, you may accompany me.”

Thancred laughs a little. “We shall endeavour to,” he says, “If only because you do not have anything with you with which to travel. Not even food! Ikael here is quite a good culinarian—you are in for a treat.”

Aviesha glances at Ikael with prickly mistrust. He smiles disarmingly, and her jaw clenches. “I shall take your word for it,” she says stiffly, facing away with her chin held high.

Thancred raises an eyebrow at Ikael, who shrugs. He does not know why she seems so bothered by him either, but it matters little. As long as she is safe.

~*~

Ikael is following Aviesha and Thancred, keeping a good distance away. They have been talking; Ikael has barely gotten close enough to hear, because whenever he starts to make out their voices, Aviesha sends him a glare and he retreats.

Whatever it is she doesn’t want him to hear, he is fine with—it is none of his business. But he… wishes to talk to Thancred. Or at least get a reassuring pat on the shoulder. He has been feeling uneasy ever since the vision of the woman; she… had more than a little resembled his own mother, and…

Aviesha scowls at him and tugs Thancred closer to herself. Ikael feels his eyebrows raise. Huh. He will not get into an argument with a child over possession of his friend; she can have him. The thought is almost amusing, but… well. He is going to have to at least communicate with Thancred at _some_ point.

Thancred himself seems oddly cheerful, laughing a little when Aviesha pulls at his hand, and keeping up conversation with a small grin and grand gestures. He seems at ease with a child around; Ikael wonders for a second if he is thinking of… ah. Someone else, when he sees Aviesha.

A cool wind blows around them. Ikael shivers, wishing he had chosen something to wear that covers more skin. Aviesha, too, shivers, and Thancred immediately removes his coat and hands it to her.

Ikael squints at them, somewhat petulantly. Then he snorts. It will not do to be jealous of a _child_.

The thought is ridiculous.

~*~

Jealousy is an ugly thing.

It sneaks up on Ikael throughout the day, snaking its way into his chest. Thancred grins, bends down, Aviesha laughs, Ikael cannot take his mind off of the woman he had seen. He thinks of his mother. Aviesha’s hair is long, and black as ink. Ikael wishes he can stop thinking of his mother. His fingers spasm.

The wind blows. Thancred is yalms away, ahead of him. Aviesha has moved closer, and Thancred is trying his best to stick to her side. To make her feel safe, Ikael knows. To shield her from the breeze, perhaps. Ikael feels more than a bit left out.

Thancred looks happier than he has in weeks. Ikael ducks his head. He is being ridiculous.

Ahead of him, they stop, and Ikael halts as well, uncertain of how close Aviesha will allow him to get. He does not want to put her ill at ease. Thancred says something to her, and she nods, glancing around.

Thancred makes his way to Ikael, then, and Aviesha shadows his footsteps. Ikael shoots her a tentative smile. He gets a glare.

“We will make camp for the evening,” Thancred says, talking to him, and Ikael nods.

“I have food packed,” he replies, even as he glances as Aviesha. He has packed for two, not three, but it is no matter. He can split their portions.

“What kind of food?” Aviesha demands, and Ikael takes a half step back. Her tone is almost confrontational; he wonders who is it that she sees when she looks at him.

“Ah, mostly dried meat and rice,” he says. It is not the feast of kings, but he has flavoured it, and it lasts long for travel. Aviesha squints at him suspiciously, and he tries to appear friendly. He thinks he just manages to look strange and a bit cold.

“It is good, probably,” Thancred assures her. “Trust me; Ikael can cook.”

Ikael smiles a little at the compliment, feeling warmth for the first time in hours, but Aviesha curls her lip, and the feeling mists.

“Why don’t you two get a nice warm fire ready?” Ikael suggests. “I can portion the food.”

Aviesha frowns. “I am a growing girl,” she says almost defensively, as if she expects him to starve her.

Thancred chuckles; he seems to find the comment endearing. “Of course,” he says. “Ikael will give you the biggest portion, will you not?”

Ikael mentally recalculates how much food he will have left to eat. He will have to… “Definitely,” he says with a bright smile. He… is hungry, but he is not the important one here.

Aviesha seems to accept getting most of the food, at least, because she nods after squinting at him, and then tugs Thancred away to gather dry branches. Ikael watches them go, and sets to work unpacking. He starts to set up the sleeping rolls, as well. Again, he only has two, but…

By the time Thancred and Aviesha get back, the sun is setting, stealing the last of its leaked heat away with it. Ikael has set out two decent-sized meals and is clutching at a smaller one. He has taken a little from Thancred; he feels bad, but he needs to eat _something_.

“Already started without us?” Thancred raises an eyebrow, grinning. Ikael blinks up at him. His cheeks are flushed, and his eyes are smiling—he must have had fun playing whatever game he had with Aviesha. The girl herself is giggling, standing a little ways back. Ikael feels the corner of his mouth lift at the sound. She is cute.

She catches him looking, and immediately stops laughing, moving behind Thancred to block herself from Ikael’s view. His smile fades. The next gust of wind seeps into his chest.

Right; Thancred has asked him a question. Ikael’s lips part as he thinks of a quick reply, and then Thancred is turning around and laughing at Aviesha as she does something or other to his back. Ikael’s mouth closes with a green snap.

He looks down at his food. The rice is cooked past dryness again—damn it. He can never quite get it right.

Thancred and Aviesha sit down, cheerfully chatting at each other. Ikael looks at them and chews on rice that’s stuck together in clumps.

Aviesha waits for Thancred to take a bite before she hesitantly reaches for the food Ikael has laid out for her. She does not take the cutlery (even if he always makes sure to carry extra). He watches her anxiously out of the corner of her eye, waiting for her appraisal. It’s unfortunate that it’s not his best work, but… Thancred doesn’t seem to mind, does he?

Thancred does not say anything, merely stabs into the dried meat with his fork. Aviesha looks at him, then copies, reaching for her own fork and scooping up some rice.

She makes a face. “It’s dry,” she says.

Ah… “Uh, it’s not really my best dish,” Ikael says with a tentative smile. She glances at him, rolls her eyes a little, and quickly goes back to her food.

Ikael feels a bit bullied, despite himself. What has he done to this child? He looks to Thancred, maybe searching for a little sympathy. He is… not above self-pity.

Thancred catches his gaze, and pauses, fork raised halfway to his mouth. “Ah…” he says.

Ikael waits.

Thancred seems to be thinking. Ikael does not like that. Thancred tries, “… It is not burnt, at least?”

Aviesha snorts. Thancred shoots her an amused glance. When he looks back, Ikael is stretching a smile across his face.

“Ha,” he forces out. The word feels like it is clawing its way out of his stomach.

“Cheer up, Kael,” Aviesha says. Ikael’s smile freezes. “At least _you_ ’ _ve_ eaten most of your food.”

“It’s ‘Ikael,’” Ikael says tightly. He does not respond to the rest of her statement.

Aviesha looks at him, and a slow smile curls up her cheek. “Okay, Kael,” she says.

She knows what she is doing. He is sure of it. He clenches his jaw, not wanting his next words to be harsh ones. She is a child.

“Relax, hm?” Thancred nudges Ikael’s leg with his foot. “I am sure as soon as you get back you can stress-bake and churn out as many perfect recipes as you can.”

“He stress-bakes?” Aviesha asks, sounding delighted. Ikael’s gaze is fixed on where Thancred has prodded him.

“He stress-bakes, and anger-bakes, and sad-bakes,” Thancred replies, shifting towards her. He sounds like he is smiling.

“ _Wow,_ ” Aviesha says. It does not sound like a compliment.

Thancred chuckles. Ikael feels a strange sensation: fear snapping into him like a bowstring, ice-cold and tight. He gets up.

“I’ll get the bedrolls ready,” he says quietly. “Aviesha, you can have mine; I’ll keep first watch.”

He doesn’t look back at them as he walks away. His jealousy is still there, in the pit of his soul, but it has frozen over.

~*~

Ikael’s hands shake as he smoothes down the second bedroll. He touches the soft fabric, closes his eyes as his mother flashes in his head again. _Kael_. He…

He feels nauseous. He needs to get up, take a walk around. He does so.

Thancred and Aviesha are, for once, separated. Ikael feels almost a sparse echo of pettiness in this, but it vanishes. Jealousy is an ugly thing, yes, but it is a sharp, quick feeling, and the lingering insecurity it hollows out of his heart is ten times worse.

He shivers. He is _cold_. He wants his bed. He wants a hug.

He walks over to Thancred. Perhaps…

“What can I do for you?” Thancred enquires, looking up from sharpening his knife. Ikael relaxes a little. Of course. Thancred would never turn him away for someone else’s solidarity.

“I, uh, don’t suppose Aviesha has told you why she hates me so much?” Ikael tries, gentling his words with a small smile. Thancred stops in his movements—and Ikael ignores the plummeting of his stomach. Thancred is not angry, not from simply that, he is not…

Thancred frowns. “Hm,” he says, apparently thinking. “No, she hasn’t said anything to me.” He grins, then, warmly. “But she has told me quite a bit about her family and lifestyle. Do you know why she lived in that little hut we found her in all alone? It’s quite fascinating, really—”

“I’m sure it is,” Ikael interrupts. He cannot bring himself to care much, unfortunately. He can’t help but add, “You two have been talking a lot.”

“Jealous?” Thancred teases.

Ikael snorts. “Of a little girl? Hardly,” he says, and maybe his tone is a bit too sharp, because Thancred looks at him and starts to frown.

“Ikael, she is… just a child,” he says, almost prudently, as if unsure he needs to say it at all.

“I know,” Ikael replies. The words are short.

Thancred frowns. “She has not… done anything. She….” He breaks off, voice going quiet.

Thancred is staring at him so… strangely. Almost warily, even. Ikael feels a sharp spike of fear, tingling from his heart to the flesh of his palms.

He’s done it. He’s crossed the line. He opens his mouth, but he can only suck in air. Thancred is beginning to look worried—but… not for Ikael—he can’t—

No. Thancred is—a good person. He’d understand. He…

_He is going to get tired of reassuring you, one of these days._

The realization hits Ikael so hard he cannot _breathe_ for a moment. Thancred can—will—leave. Ikael needs to… he needs to do better. _Be_ better. He needs to do more to deserve him.

Thancred slowly gets up, still giving Ikael that strange… _look_. He says, in a low voice, “Ikael? Are you… alright?”

Ikael cannot speak. He looks at him, watching him rise and come closer.

Thancred slowly extends an arm, and his fingers make contact with Ikael’s shoulder for a brief moment. Ikael jerks back as if his touch holds fire itself—no, he cannot. Not yet. He cannot keep _taking_.

Thancred stops moving. “… Ikael?” he ventures.

“No,” Ikael says, and why does his voice sound so cold? He tries again to speak, but no sound escapes his throat.

Thancred looks at him, and his face changes. Ikael wants him to smile again—he feels like molten ice.

“… I am sorry,” Thancred says, a bit stiffly, “If I have done anything to offend.”

 _No_. “You didn’t do anything, Thancred,” Ikael says quietly, but he has to look at the ground. Thancred does not say anything, and Ikael glances back up.

Thancred stares for a moment, and then closes his eyes tiredly. “Then please,” he implores, and has he always sounded this exhausted? “I… I have a child to take care of right now, and I… cannot…”

“I know. I’m sorry,” Ikael says softly. He is a crystal, frozen and fragile.

Thancred gives him a nod and a last lingering look that Ikael cannot decipher, and then turns to leave.

Ikael watches his back with a heavy, knowing gaze. He is sorry.

~*~

Ikael cannot look at Thancred anymore. He can barely hold himself together now, as he is. His every breath burns through him, and fear and abandonment pulse into his fingertips in time with his heartbeat. It is his own fault. He should have been better.

He unwraps dried cut fruit for breakfast, and gives Aviesha his whole portion. He needs to… _give_ more, _do_ more, _be_ more. He cannot take.

He is rolling up the bedrolls when he hears Aviesha approach. He turns to her, hands folded, waits for her to say whatever she needs to.

She holds out a piece of dried apricot.

“Take it,” she says. Her hand is small.

Ikael stares at the offered food. “It is your breakfast,” he says.

Aviesha shakes her head. “It was yours first, Ikael,” she replies.

Ikael stretches out a smile for her. “I appreciate the thought,” he says, “But you need to eat it far more than I do. You’re a growing girl, remember?”

He does not take the fruit, and goes back to packing. Aviesha stands there, hand still outstretched. Slowly, her fingers close.

“I… knew a miqo’te, once,” she says.

Ikael has gathered. “Oh?” he inquires anyways.

She shuffles her feet. “She… used to be my friend,” she says. “Then she… she betrayed us. To bandits. My mama was… hurt. In the fight. She… she didn’t…”

“I am sorry,” Ikael says sincerely.

“She… called them her family,” Aviesha continues quietly. “But…” Her voice trembles. “I thought… I thought I was…”

Ikael rises. “You do not need to explain yourself to me,” he says gently. “I am sorry for what happened to your mother. My… my own is still alive, but… I am sorry.”

Aviesha nods. “You can choose your family,” she says. “I… your name is Ikael. I know that now. You are… kind. Not her.”

Ikael wonders how much of him she sees, even now. “I am trying my best,” he says simply.

She nods, looking at his chest, then steps forward to give him a quick hug. He goes still, surprised, but she is already moving away.

“Thank you for the fruit,” she tells him. “I… am sorry if you are hungry.”

She trots off. Ikael watches her hair blow in the wind. He is starving.

~*~

They have reached a stream, and Aviesha is staring at it with obvious hesitation. For good reason: the current is fast and dangerous, and the stepping stones threaten to trick anyone daring to cross into loosing their footing and tumbling off the waterfall breaking a few yalms away.

“It is not usually this high,” Aviesha says. “I’ve never… I’ve never crossed it before like this.”

The weather has been cloudy, and tide is high. Ikael knows that the water will not lower for perhaps weeks. There is no better time than now.

“I shall go first,” Thancred asserts. “Alright? To see if it is safe. Then we will help you cross.”

(He hasn’t said anything to Ikael all morning—his voice sends an icy shock through him. He ignores it.)

Ikael nods, gaze scanning the rocks as he searches for a path. Thancred knows his footwork, and they can both aid Aviesha. They will have to go slowly to walk her across safely.

Thancred eyes the first jut of stone, and then steps back and skips lightly onto it. He pauses, looks, and continues. He is on the other side within moments, and then he turns and beckons to them.

“Slowly!” he calls.

Ikael offers Aviesha his hand, and she immediately latches onto his forearm. He moves forward, nods at her, and takes a small leap, easing her weight into his. They land semi-gracefully—Aviesha clutches at him and darts her gaze around.

“The next one is easier,” Ikael says in a low, reassuring tone. They will have to do this one individually—it is too small, and they will fall if they attempt it together. Thancred, ahead of them, lightly jumps to a closer stone, prepared to steady them if they need it.

“I can do it,” Aviesha says, sounding uncertain, and Ikael nods.

“Yes, you can,” he says firmly.

Aviesha readies herself, and leaps—

 _Twelve_ , she is small—her legs are not as strong as Ikael’s by far, and—

She slips—

Ikael lunges forward, shoving her at Thancred before she can fall, and she screams—he catches her, but Ikael—

Ikael’s tail flails wildly, whipping in the wind that is suddenly, so, so fast, attempts to balance him, but—

The rocks are slippery—water is wet, the sky is grey, Ikael is

_Falling._

“ _IKAEL!”_

It is too late.

~*~

Ikael pulls himself out of the water with a heaving gasp, hungrily gulping in air through his lungs. He clutches at what seems like black stone beneath him, dragging himself forward.

He collapses on the ground of what appears to be a small cave. At its entrance, water cascades with a crushing finality. Ikael chokes at it—he is glad he did not come to his end at its mercy.

He sits, drawing his knees up. His linkpearl has fallen out—it is lost forever to the currents now. He wonders how long it will take for anyone to notice. Will they investigate?

He is soaked, and shivering, and alone.

No one will come for him. They never do. He will have to find his way back, eventually. He knows this.

He shivers violently, ducking his head in his knees. He is freezing, and starving. He will… wait. Perhaps—perhaps sleep. He feels weak; he needs the rest.

He wonders where Thancred and Aviesha are. He hopes she gets to her home safely. He has packed a little extra food into Thancred's bag—just in case he wants snacks. Hopefully, it should suffice for the next day or so.

Ikael’s own bag is gone, and with it all of his provisions. He—he misses… his blankets. The feel of them.

He squeezes water from his tail. He… wants a hug. He wraps it around his ankles.

He misses Thancred's smile. He feels terrible for stealing it from him. He feels terrible for…

No one will come for him. He hopes he hasn’t brought down their mood too much. Well, at least he’s gone now.

No one will come for him. He is not good enough. He feels like a crystal again, but this time its fragility is cracked.

He shatters.

~*~

He is seeing things, now. Abandonment has carved a void into him, and he is a shell. He knew this would happen. He _knew_. They will leave the Warrior of Light to find his own way out.

He is small, and he is crying. His mother is pulling rocks away from him, and she reaches the fissure he has forced himself into. She holds him, comforts him. Later, she gets _furious_ , not at him, and nearly beats them to death with her bare hands. They get kicked out of the clan. His father snorts at him. _Weak_ , he says. His mother challenges him with a steel jaw. He backs away. Kael hugs her close. She loves him. She had come for him.

He is seeing things, now, but not that. He is seeing a figure step into the waterfall, duck its head underneath its arms to shield itself, step inside. Ikael squints at it.

The figure moves closer, then suddenly freezes and rushes forward. Ikael wants to tell it to watch its footing.

“You’re here,” Thancred breathes, reaching out to him. Water is dripping from every ilm of his body—his hair is sticking to his head and neck, a dark, wet grey now. He looks ridiculous.

He might dry, but even so, the temperature in the cave is not ideal. Ikael is so—cold. He shivers, watching Thancred.

Thancred presses his hands into Ikael, feels his arm. He is very warm. “Gods, you’re freezing,” he mutters. “You could get hypothermic—If I had found you any later…” He trails off. His face is twisted.

Ikael does not know what to say. He is sorry that Thancred feels responsible for him. “How did you get here?” he murmurs.

Something like relief passes over Thancred's face. “Oh, good,” he sighs, “Still with me. I searched for you—when you fell I nearly dived in after, but that would have been stupid.” He shakes his head with a small grin. “I found my way to the bottom of the waterfall the slow way. I am sorry it took me this long.”

He looks strangely earnest. Ikael startles, thinking— “Where is Aviesha?” he asks urgently.

“She went on ahead,” Thancred says. “We were nearly there, and we passed the wolves’ hunting ground yesterday. She has made the trek countless times; she is safe.”

Ikael nods. _Good_. He regrets that he hadn’t gotten a chance to say goodbye—he could have given her a few of Thancred's snacks. The sweeter ones.

Thancred wraps his arms around Ikael, rubbing them up and down vigorously as if to warm him up—then stops. Ikael feels immediately guilty.

“I… am sorry,” Thancred says hesitantly. “Is this… alright with you? I had not thought to ask you—you are cold, and so…”

Thancred had _looked_ for Ikael, no matter the reason. Ikael owes him so much—he feels terribly, terribly selfish. He shakes his head. He cannot keep taking like this.

“O-Oh,” Thancred says, and withdraws. He sits next to Ikael quietly.

Ikael still feels horrible. He says, “I am sorry.” His voice is thick and sticky.

“Hm?” Thancred says. “No; it is fine, Ikael. Whatever your reason, I can respect your need for space. It is unusual, but… I should not take it personally. Whatever you need, yeah?” He shoots Ikael a small smile.

Ikael stares at him. Space? He doesn’t want _space_. What…? “I… don’t want space?” he says questioningly. His voice is still treacle. Stupid thing.

Thancred sort of squints a frown at him. “But… earlier? I thought you…” He pauses.

“I…” Ikael starts,

“You seemed so distressed,” Thancred says at the same time. They both stop.

“No, you first,” Thancred says.

Ikael feels _worse._ “Not me first!” he mumbles nonsensically. “It’s always me first! I don’t _want_ —I want… for _you_ first, not…” His voice is melting, words melding together. “I don’t want… I shouldn’t t-take from you so much—you are so kind, and so amazing, and I don’t d-deserve first, I keep _t-taking_ from you I’m _sorry_ —”

“Whoa, whoa,” Thancred says, pawing at him gently. “What are you blubbering on about, hm? Come—wait. Do you want a hug?”

Ikael shakes his head. “C-can’t,” he stammers into his knees.

“Well _that’s_ not what I asked, is it? Do you want one?”

Ikael starts crying. He feels sad and cold and left alone, and he doesn’t know what else to do.

“Oh, come now,” Thancred says, and wraps his arms around Ikael. “I am sorry if I am in fact wrong and am horrendously offending you somehow by doing this, but I am beginning to doubt that that was ever the case.”

 “I’m _sorry_ ,” Ikael moans, voice muffled.

“Yes, yes.” Thancred says, laying his head on Ikael’s shoulder. “I forgive you. For whatever it is you think you are taking from me.”

Ikael sniffs. He says, “I… I never give you anything, and you are always h-here for me, and I-I’m not _good_ enough—”

“Now you stop that,” Thancred scolds. “You are more than wonderful, Ikael. You are more than enough.”

“’m _not_ ,” Ikael sobs.

Thancred makes a consoling sound, and presses his forehead to Ikael’s temple. He is so close—his eyelashes are white and long, and feel like butterfly wings.

“Whatever you do,” he says into Ikael’s heart, “Whatever acts you perform to deem yourself worthy are _far_ outclassed by simply who you are as a person.”

Ikael keens, cold and hungry and confused, and Thancred murmurs to him, says things that are _so kind_ and…

“Thank you,” Ikael mumbles, somehow into Thancred's neck, “F-for coming to find me.”

“Well, what else was I going to do?” Thancred says. He is stroking Ikael’s hair. It feels nice.

“Leave me,” Ikael whispers. The words scrape out of the bottom of his heart, a fear stolen from the dead of night. “You were going to leave me.”

They are alone. The cave is dark and cold. The water is alive.

Thancred squeezes him. “Never,” he vows.

Ikael closes his eyes. He will do—anything. Anything. For Thancred. For this.

“I owe you so much,” he says softly. “I am sorry I am like this.”

“I would not want you any other way,” Thancred replies.

Ikael fists his hands into Thancred's shirt. The fabric is wet. It feels rough and judgemental.

“Ikael,” Thancred begins. His voice is close.

Ikael nods.

“… You have done much, for me,” Thancred says. He is breathing into Ikael’s soul. “I… am better. Because of you. And a bleeding heart now, apparently. But… I would not change it. So thank you.”

Ikael hiccups.

“Er,” says Thancred.

Ikael starts crying again.

Thancred sighs, and pats him on the back.

~*~

“So,” Thancred asks, when they are still sitting, but closer together, because Ikael is bloody _freezing_ and Thancred is worried, “You kept your clan name?”

Ikael tilts his head back against Thancred's shoulder to look at him.

He smiles a bit. Thancred is glad it is genuine this time. Ikael’s eyes are soft and insecure, but trusting. He says, “You hadn’t figured that out yet, hm? Mister Reconnaissance?”

“ _W-e-ll_ ,” Thancred says, dragging the word out, “I only spy on my friends when they’re naked. And you wear lingerie in the bath.”

Ikael snorts. Then giggles, and then full on laughs, chest heaving and shoulders shaking. Thancred feels a soft smile grow on his own face; he is glad that Ikael is feeling lighter. He needs warmth—and food—Thancred had noticed him giving Aviesha practically all of his servings. Thancred intends to rectify that as soon as they get out; he had found extra baked goods in his pack for some reason and _will_ force-feed them to Ikael.

Ikael’s tail hits him in the stomach. All right—all right. This is dragging on for a strangely long moment. Thancred lays a hand on his shoulder, waits for him to calm down. Squeezes.

Ikael breathes evenly after a minute, and looks up at Thancred with a smile. “By my reasoning,” he says, “The clan did not own me. My name was my own—I could choose what I wanted it to be.” He shrugs.

“And I liked ‘Ikael,’” he finishes, eyes alight.

“I like it too,” Thancred says lightly, then nods. “Thank you for telling me.”

Ikael nudges him with his nose. Thancred says, “May I ask… ‘Jelaar?’”

“My mother’s name is Jela,” Ikael says. He goes a bit quiet at the word ‘mother.’ Thancred decides not to push.

“It suits you,” he says instead. “Although perhaps that is because it is all I have known you as.”

“Kael was a child,” Ikael replies. “A frightened one. I am… no longer him.”

Something occurs to Thancred. He coughs a little, embarrassed. “I, ah,” he says, “I am sorry if, by some miraculous manifestation or other that I cannot think of at the moment—” Alcohol. “—I have called you that in the past. I shall endeavour not to.”

“Oh.” Ikael sounds almost surprised. “Actually, uh… I don’t mind when… you people do it. Just… not strangers. It’s different with friends.”

“Alright,” Thancred says, pleased. He can add one miqo’te name to his list now, for a total of… one. Ah… he needs more friends. “And you may continue to call me whatever nonsense you can come up with,” he says in return. “I am particularly fond of ‘sugar-pie’ and ‘sweet-nuts.’”

Ikael snorts ungracefully at “sweet-nuts,” and Thancred grins.

“I am sure,” Ikael mutters, snickering a little. He smirks.

Thancred relaxes, thinking. They should head out soon—there is no point in attempting to get dry, since the waterfall is their only exit. But as soon as Ikael stops shivering…

Thancred backtracks. Thinks some more.

“Wait,” he says. “Do you actually wear…”

Ikael hums. “Not in the bath,” he replies, amused. “But yes. Sometimes.”

Thancred… considers. “Huh,” he says, voice thoughtful.

Ikael stares, then hits him. “Stop picturing me in lingerie,” he says.

Thancred stops. “I was doing no such thing,” he says. Ikael groans, and hits him again.

“Ow,” says Thancred. Ikael sticks his tongue out at him.

“I am telling Y’shtola,” he states.

“There are beautiful young miqo’te _all_ _around_ me,” Thancred replies with an exaggerated wink. “I am a purveyor of the arts.”

“She’ll _kill_ you if I tell her you said that,” Ikael says, delighted. Thancred grins. She will.

“There,” he declares grandly, “That is your blackmail. Now you may ask me for all the hugs you wish.”

Ikael’s entire face stops, and then—softens.

“Oh, _Thancred,_ ” he breathes, and Thancred smiles into his shoulder as Ikael shuffles around and squeezes half the life out of him.

He will tell Ikael as much as he needs to, he decides. That he would not give up this up, ever. Not for the _world_.

~*~

**Author's Note:**

> Had a different plan where they fought, but, well. The "misunderstanding for drama" trope is overused. Poor Thancred's just trying to live his life.  
> Also, Ikael was thisclose to hypothermia. If Thancred hadn't shared body heat, he would have definitely started to feel... suspiciously woozy. And he would have stayed in the cave.
> 
> (want to give _Ikael_ a hug this time? [ tumblr ](http://draw-you-coward.tumblr.com/))


End file.

**Author's Note:**

> This one's a bit lighter so read if u need a hug c:

It was a long trek from Gyr Abania to Mor Dhona.

If Thancred had ever been in doubt of this, he wasn’t anymore. _I’ll walk_ , he’d said. _I’ll enjoy nature_ , he’d said. _I don’t need a chocobo_ , he’d said. _No, really—they smell,_ he’d said. And so he’d set off, purple mountains and his pet nutkin on the mind.

Now he was trudging through a swamp.

“Guh,” he muttered to himself.

“ _Rarrrghhhhhh,”_ the voidsent screamed in response.

Thancred immediately whirled around, daggers out, and got clawed across the stomach for his troubles. The blow knocked him to the ground, and then the voidsent was upon him, hissing angrily, vile filth spewing forth from its mouth. It reared back, ready to slice at him again, and Thancred tried to get up but his foot was caught on something—damn this swamp—he couldn’t get free no matter how hard he tugged—

“Thancred!” yelled a familiar voice, and then a dark shape threw itself in front of him, standing firm. Thancred quickly cut himself loose and scrambled back, staring at sharp black armour, a sharp black sword, sharp black hair and… a brown-tipped tail.

Fire erupted in front of them, and Thancred shielded his eyes. When he looked once more, the voidsent had become a pile of ash.

Thancred looked up. “What are _you_ doing here?” he asked. “And what is that _hideously_ clunky weapon you’re carrying?”

Ikael turned around and grinned at him. Whatever blow he had intercepted seemed to have had little to no effect on him, strangely enough. Thancred had seen him in armour like this once before, but he hadn’t given it much thought at the time. Still, as far as he was comfortable with, this would not do. Ikael should be about as fleshy and vulnerable as _he_ was.

“It’s a sword,” Ikael said, planting the atrocity in the ground and crossing his hands over the pommel. He was still grinning. “You know, sometimes people who don’t want to get diced to bits from a single attack use them? And to answer your first question, I was in the area.”

He offered a hand, which Thancred gladly accepted, and hauled him up. Thancred felt blood pulse out of his wound and winced, steadying himself on Ikael’s forearm.

Thancred could see the moment Ikael realized he was injured. His eyes widened, his face fell—ah, he was still a bleeding heart, then. Good.

“You’re hurt!” Ikael exclaimed unnecessarily, and Thancred started to wave him off. He made it halfway through saying “I’m fi—” before Ikael spun around, still holding onto him, and called, “Colette!”

That was when Thancred noticed the three other people. They were coming closer, now; they must have been standing some ways off. A scowling roegadyn with an axe was glaring at him—Thancred winked—a pretty miqo’te girl seemed to be hiding a staff behind her back, and… oh. The elezen who was stalking towards Ikael and himself must be Colette.

“There is no need to shout,” she said irritably. “I can hear you perfectly fine from over there, cat. What do you want?”

She didn't so much as glance at Thancred. Ikael sighed. The sound was… strangely long-suffering.

“Can you heal him?” he asked. “Please.”

Colette still didn’t look at Thancred. “Heal?” she said primly. She touched a hand to her chest. “Oh, I’m sorry; am _I_ important now? Are you deigning to pay me attention? Do you actually need _me_ for something?”

Fresh blood pulsed out of Thancred's abdomen. He smothered a cough.

“Colette,” Ikael said irritably, “Heal him.”

Colette finally looked at Thancred. That was to say, she looked down her nose at him. “That vagabond?” she said with disdain. She paused, seeming to relish in the way Ikael gritted his teeth.

Then she said, “Hm. No.”

“Your friends are—ah—lovely,” Thancred told Ikael. “Especially the pretty one not glaring at me.” He gave the miqo’te a smile, and she looked surprised for a second, then returned it.

“Uh, Thancred,” Ikael said, wincing, “Don’t—”

“Hands _off_ , you snake-tongued skirt-chaser,” Colette hissed, and thumped her cane on the ground. _Whoops._ “I swear, you men are all the same—you just think with your prick, not with—”

“Colette,” called the miqo’te in a small voice, “Just heal him. Please. Then we can leave.”

Colette glared at Thancred, and he smiled his most platonic, non-flirtatious smile back. He didn’t say, _If I had a snake tongue I’d think with my mouth, not my prick_ , because he was, in fact, in some pain, and he did not, in fact, wish to get hit with a cane. And while he didn’t want to step on anyone’s toes, he wouldn’t say no to a heal if it was offered.  

“Stop doing whatever it is you’re doing with your mouth,” Ikael muttered to him. “It’s unnerving.”

Thancred rolled his eyes and dropped the smile. Colette stared at him for a full minute, then made a growling sort of noise, and held up her weapon.

Thancred felt the strange sensation of his skin knitting back together magically, and he bowed. Then—stumbled.

Ikael caught him, frowning. Colette sniffed and said, “There. He won’t _die_.”

“Thank you, my dear lady,” Thancred said. “You are most generous. And might I say, speaking purely aesthetic— _gh_ —”

Ikael had wrapped his arms around him, and now held him in a bone-crushing embrace. Thancred let out an undignified squawk, then chuckled and relaxed, patting Ikael on the head. It had been a while since they had last seen each other, after all. And Thancred had… missed the hugs a bit, although he’d never admit that out loud. Definitely not to Ikael.

“Alright, alright,” Thancred said after it had started out drag out for bit too long, “You can let me go now. Although I will say, it is nice to be appreciated.”

Ikael pulled back reluctantly, and kept his hand on Thancred's shoulder. He looked like he wanted nothing more than to keep hugging Thancred for the rest of eternity, and while that was… well. While that was _something_ , Thancred had places to go.

“You done being all touchy-feely?” the roegadyn grumbled, and a strange look passed over Ikael’s face. It was gone in an instant, and then he was pulling away. His fingers briefly brushed over Thancred's collar before breaking contact.

“Just greeting an old friend, Svaldthal,” Ikael said. He turned to the other two. “This is Thancred.”

“Perfect. I do not care. M’ara and I are leaving,” said Colette, “As per our agreement. In fact, I healed your vagrant friend, so I do believe I have _surpassed_ our agreement.” She cleared her throat, and turned with a snap of her heel and a flourish of her cloak.

Ikael lightly punched Thancred in the stomach. Thancred grunted.

“He’s still in pain,” said Ikael, who was wearing metal gauntlets that were definitely not soft.

Colette said, “Not my problem.” She was still walking away.

“Ikael, I—” the miqo’te—M’ara—stepped forward. She smiled up at Ikael nervously, biting her lip.

“Thank you for helping us,” she said shyly, and—was that a blush? “You’re… you’re very kind, and smart—” _That_ was wasn’t true. “—and… I promise that whenever I make that sweetbread recipe you gave me I’ll think of you!”

Ikael smiled at her. Thancred looked on, utterly amused; he was beginning to understand Colette’s behaviour now.

“Make it for yourself and Colette, alright?” Ikael said gently—bless his heart. “Isn’t your anniversary coming up soon?”

“I…” M’ara glanced back at Colette. “… Yes,” she said quietly.

“Perfect opportunity, then!” Ikael beamed. “I’ll be seeing you, M’ara, all right? Don’t be afraid to contact me by linkpearl if you need me! It was a pleasure meeting you—Colette is very lucky.”

M’ara sighed, starting to leave, and then paused to look at Thancred's chin.

“I-I’m sorry about the voidsent,” she squeaked so quickly he had trouble hearing her. “Side effect, aha.”

Then she’d run off. Thancred stared after her, nonplussed.

Ikael sighed. “Poor girl,” he muttered.

“We leaving?” grunted Svaldthal, who had been silent this entire time. Ikael jumped a little.

“Yes,” he said. “Thancred, we’re for Mor Dhona— Svaldthal wanted to visit. Where are you heading? You can… I can escort you there, if it’s on the way?” He looked hopeful.

“You are in luck,” Thancred said, carefully storing the past five minutes in his head for later blackmail material, “I’m to the Rising Stones myself. You won’t have to be deprived of my excellent company for a while yet.”

“Perfect,” grumbled Svaldthal, but Ikael was looking at Thancred as if he had just offered him the sun.

“Oh, good,” he breathed, and the joyous, grateful tone of his voice should have been Thancred's first clue. “I’ve missed you.”

~*~

Ikael wondered if Thancred was hungry. If he’d eaten anything recently. How was he feeling? Did his stomach hurt? Did he seem physically healthy? Mentally? Ikael would be glad to offer him a hug if he wanted one. Had he been getting enough exercise? He looked lean. Had he been getting enough to _eat_? Had he—

“Ikael.” Thancred waved a hand in front of his face, looking amused. “Oi.”

Thancred was smiling at him. Ikael smiled back, feeling warm. He was so happy Thancred was here. He’d missed… well. He’d missed him. Of course. Thancred was his friend—it was normal to miss your friends, right? Yes, he…

“Do you, uh,” Ikael said, trying not so sound too hopeful, “Do you want a hug?”

Thancred squinted at him. “… Not particularly,” he said slowly. “Have… you been hit on the head?”

Oh.

“No! No. That’s fine. I mean—um, sorry. I’ll, uh… I’ll get dinner, yeah? We should eat?”

“The one with the little knives can handle hunting,” Svaldthal called, dropping a pile of firewood to the ground. Ikael gave a start. “’kael, you’re cooking, right?”

“Of course!” Ikael said, hiding a wince. Svaldthal grunted and set to work on lighting the fire.

They had managed to make it to the border of the swamp today. Thancred, while still not walking perfectly straight, had not slowed them down, and now, while they made camp for the night, while crickets chirped their indignance into the burgeoning darkness, while nature settled down and sang itself to sleep, _now_ Ikael could finally pester him about his wound.

He turned to Thancred to do just that, but—Thancred was frowning at him. Oh _no._

“Ikael,” Thancred said, pulling him aside, “Have you been cooking for them this entire time?”

Ikael stared at him. What kind of a question was that? “Of course,” he said.

Thancred asked, “And hunting?”

Ikael nodded. “I was helping them out.”

“Maybe you should… take a bit of a break,” Thancred suggested. “I’m sure Svaldthal can—”

“Do you want to cook?” Ikael asked, squinting at him.

Thancred opened his mouth. He closed it. “Er,” he said.

Ikael smiled. “I’ll give you the bigger portion,” he offered, “Since you’re my favourite. Will that make you happy?”

Thancred looked at him oddly. Ikael smiled a bit more, ignoring the dread clawing at his chest. He folded his ears down. Perhaps Thancred would give him a hug if Ikael did what he wanted?

Thancred said, “You just… stay here, alright? I’ll go…” He glanced around them. “… fishing, I suppose.”

Ikael hadn’t brought his fishing rod. He couldn’t _help_ —

Thancred clapped him on the shoulder before walking off, and Ikael relaxed minutely. Right; it didn't matter too much. Thancred had his knives—he could probably manage to catch a few fish without much difficulty.

Ikael started to look through his pack for spices. Perhaps Thancred would give him a hug if the food was good enough.

~*~

Seaweed. Thancred spit some out. _Swivving_ seaweed. Why was there seaweed in a swamp, anyways? Who had decided that? Thaliak? Ugh.

Thancred's boot made a squelching sound, and he scowled at it, clutching the fish he had knifed to his chest. He didn’t need a _reminder_ of his recent impromptu bath, thank you very much. He shivered. _Seaweed._

His other boot squelched.

When he got back to camp, Svaldthal laughed at him. Thancred scowled and squelched past him, heading to the firepit, which was thankfully up, large and spitting burning embers. Count on a sea wolf to chop up an excessive amount of wood.

He heard Ikael cry, “Thancred!” and then Ikael was kneeling next to him, sans armour, his worried face filling Thancred's vision. Thancred carefully laid the fish down on what looked to be a frying pan—who carried _frying pans_ around? —before preparing himself for the anxious frenzy coming his way.

“Oh no—you’re soaked!” Ikael was saying, hovering around him. “Here—stay close to the fire, okay? I wish I’d learned some thaumaturgy; I could have warmed you up easily.”

“Give the man some space,” Svaldthal said, sounding annoyed, and Ikael obediently backed up a fulm, twisting his hands together. He started to gnaw on his lower lip.

“It’s alright,” Thancred said, frowning slightly. “And I am fine, Ikael. I’ll dry up soon enough.” Even as he said the words, he suppressed an inconvenient shiver.

“Then I need to see to your wound,” Ikael said, gaze bright with concern. “I don’t think Colette was very thorough.”

Thancred sighed. Ikael had been giving him the impression of a wind-up mammet running low on energy, and he really didn’t want to heap anything more onto him. Honestly, the cut on his stomach didn’t hurt too much—Colette had done a good enough job to prevent any internal bleeding and seal up the wound. It was a bit sore, and that was all. But…

Ikael was staring at him with impossibly wide eyes. How were his eyes so big? Was that normal for miqo’te?

Ikael pouted. “ _Please_ ,” he said.

His brows started to draw together.

Thancred sighed. “Fine,” he acquiesced, because he was a weak, weak man. Ikael lit up, and Thancred smiled despite himself. He could admit, if pushed, that it was nice to be fussed over somewhat. As long as it was mutual fussing over, at least. He would have to figure out what had Ikael so jumpy—sooner rather than later.

First, Thancred should probably undress—he’d dry faster. His clothes were sticking to him, and he had to try a few times to tug his shirt off. Ikael winked at him when he was topless, and Thancred huffed out a chuckle, shucking his trousers.

“I’ll put these to dry. Go lie on your bedroll,” Ikael ordered, taking his clothes. “Ha—my younger self would have _killed_ to be in my position right now.”

Thancred had most definitely not forgotten about Ikael’s faded crush. He intended to bring it up at the most inopportune time possible, of course.

“I feel objectified,” he said as he lowered himself to the bedroll. “In the _best_ way, of course.”

“Serves you right,” Ikael returned, grinning. “You… what was it? ‘Snake-tongued skirt-chaser?’”

“Are you saying you’d put on a skirt for me, Ikael?”

“Hm.” Ikael tapped his chin, making his way over. “Not really my style, but for _you_ , I’d consider it.”

“Hurry up and get dinner ready,” Svaldthal interrupted. Thancred watched as Ikael’s tail dipped down between his legs.

Thancred very purposefully winced, and Ikael’s attention shifted to him like magic. It was almost comical, really, and Thancred only felt a _little_ bit bad when Ikael scrambled over to him. Thancred didn’t want to make him even more worried, but he was healing fairly well—there wasn’t anything Ikael needed to do for him—and it was worth it for Svaldthal’s sigh of annoyance.

“Okay, let me see,” Ikael said, and Thancred obediently let himself be poked at.

Seven pointless minutes later, during which Thancred had made a small noise of pain every time Svaldthal had opened his mouth, Ikael deemed Thancred to be well on the mend.

“I’ll get you some of my extra clothes,” he said, scurrying about. “They might be a bit small, but it’s better than nothing. You’ve been _shivering_ —you’ll catch cold!”

“Really, you’re far too generous, my friend,” Thancred returned smoothly, “Looking after me like you are. At least allow me to help you make dinner so I can return your kindness.”

Ikael paused, threw a shirt at him, and seemed to think.

“I would feel terrible if I were an imposition,” Thancred wheedled. “You know I hate that feeling. I would be very grateful if you allowed me to help.”

The word “grateful” seemed to be the key, because Ikael gradually started nodding.

“Right, right,” he said. “Anything to make you feel better. Sure, you can help!” he chirped. “I’ll fry the fish—can you season them?”

Thancred had no idea how to season fish. “Of course,” he said, and Ikael smiled at him before heading to the firepit to do what he did best. Well. Second-best.

“About fuckin’ time,” Svaldthal said loud enough to be heard, and Thancred crossed his arms.

“I don’t suppose _you_ could help?” he asked, making sure his voice had an edge of sarcasm that even Ikael would have detected. He hadn’t failed to notice the dark looks Svaldthal had been sending their way all day, and it was beginning to get irritating. “What have you been doing this whole time, anyhow?”

“Not acting like a nursemaid,” Svaldthal replied, scowling at him.

Thancred scowled back. “Ikael’s nursemaid-like traits are his best,” he said, and went to help his fretful friend with the fish.

~*~

“Um,” said Ikael when they had all mostly eaten and he was poking at the last fish in his frying pan, “I wanted to ask you for something.”

Thancred was sitting right next to him, _nearly_ touching him, but not quite—and he hadn’t so much as clapped Ikael on the shoulder since earlier. Svaldthal was… Svaldthal was sitting as far away from them as possible. Ikael couldn’t see him; his back was turned.

Thancred looked at him and smiled. His skin was a warm orange-brown from the light of the fire; they were sitting fairly close to it.

“Whatever you need,” Thancred said. His tone was almost teasing.

“Not _whatever_ I need,” Ikael grumbled. The fish made a strange noise and he tutted at it, moving the pan away from the fire. The last of their food was officially burnt and useless now—he hoped no one was still hungry. He put the pan down hastily, picking the fish out.

“ _Whatever_ you need,” Thancred repeated, spreading his hands. “I am at your service, my dear man.”

That wasn’t very fair, was it? Ikael hadn’t done anything to warrant that.

“This is not a one-sided relationship,” Ikael said, slapping Thancred's arm with the fish. “It has to be _even_. If you do this for me I have to… make you breakfast for a month, or something.”

“Did you just hit me with a _fish_?” Thancred said incredulously.

Ikael hit him again, to make a point. “Even,” he repeated. The fish left a wet spot on Thancred's sleeve.

Thancred was staring at him like he had grown an extra head. “… Alright,” he agreed anyways, “Even. But _I_ get to chose what you do in return.”

Ikael could accept that. He nodded.

“I, uh—” His words caught in his throat. He shot Svaldthal a quick glance, suddenly nervous.

Thancred touched his arm, and Ikael looked at him, feeling the contact spread through him like soft water. He wanted to chase Thancred's hand when it withdrew, more than anything—but Svaldthal—

“Ikael,” Thancred said, “Ignore him. What is it?”

“I…” Ikael swallowed. “I mean, I know it’s not… and Svaldthal doesn’t… he doesn’t like it—”

“He can manage,” Thancred said firmly. “What do you need, hm?”

He shifted closer to Ikael, which—was nice. Ikael wanted—

“Can I… can I have a hug?” he said in a small voice, looking at Thancred's knee.

Thancred made a strangely wounded noise, and Ikael looked up in alarm, then let out a muffled squeak when he was suddenly enveloped in warmth that smelled like steel, and flames, and confidence.

“Of _course,_ ” Thancred said above Ikael’s head. “Hugs are _free_ , you poor, sad little eikon-slayer. Gods, the sentiment you drag out of me… Y’shtola would be laughing if she could see me now.”

Ikael tried to pull back at that, but Thancred wouldn’t let him, only tugging him closer.

“‘Can I have a hug,’” Thancred muttered to himself. “Ridiculous. I thought you were going to ask me to buy you a new frying pan or something.”

What? Was his frying pan—

“It’s fine,” Thancred said quickly. “Uh… you might have put it down in the fire. I’ll get you a new one.”

Ikael burrowed his head into Thancred's shoulder, closing his eyes… then snapped them open. Svaldthal—

“I do hope whatever just made you just tense up is less important than me,” Thancred intoned. “Because otherwise, I might be offended.”

Alright. _Fine_. Ikael smiled to himself. He could ignore Svaldthal for—

“You’re more of a kitten than a coeurl, aren’t you?” Svaldthal’s booming voice was filled with scorn. “Seven hells, it’s a miracle you can protect anything bigger than yourself.”

Ikael pushed Thancred away immediately, shame churning in his gut. Right; he was being pathetic again. Who asked for hugs, anyways? Thancred never asked for hugs. Did Y’shtola? _Definitely_ not. And she was miqo’te too—so it wasn’t a _racial_ quirk.

Ergo, it must be Ikael.

He felt lonely without the contact, because Thancred was warm and friendly, but…. He shuffled away, going to prepare his bedroll. It was warm too.

“Wait just one second.” That was Thancred, right behind him—Ikael jumped. He hadn’t heard him follow.

Thancred settled down next to him. Ikael’s shirt was a bit tight on him, and the trousers were a bit short, and Thancred had wrung out his bandana but stubbornly retied it, so it was _entirely_ possible he could still catch cold—was that how colds worked? Did his head need to be warm?

“Does your head need to be warm?” Ikael asked anxiously.

Thancred scrunched his face at Ikael. “We really need to get you looked at by a healer,” he muttered. Then something in the set of his mouth—shifted.

“Actually,” he said, sounding as if he had just had an enlightening realization, “My head _is_ feeling a bit cold. You like touching people, don’t you?”

Ikael did. He nodded.

“I can respect boundaries,” he told Thancred, because it was true.

Thancred waved his hand dismissively. “I doubt there are any between us at this point,” he said airily. He moved closer to Ikael, tugged at him a for second, and then he… _laid down_. In Ikael’s _lap._ How _precious_.

Ikael cooed at him, and Thancred immediately pinched him. “No stupid noises,” he said, “But my hair is a mess.”

It _was_. Ikael hadn’t brought a comb—gods, he really had been unprepared for this excursion. Nevertheless, he could use his fingers, and he did. It was a calming motion, carefully untangling the ends of the hair and working his way up. He… he had used to do it with his mother, actually, and the sensation was… soothing

He undid Thancred's braid, briefly considered chopping it off, decided he wanted to keep his fingers, and moved on. Thancred's hair was drying roughly and smelled a bit like swamp, but Ikael didn’t mind. The proximity and contact were comforting.

“Ikael,” Thancred said eventually, “I’ve decided how you can repay me for the hug.”

“Mmhm?” Ikael tugged at the ties of Thancred's bandana questioningly, and when Thancred nodded, carefully took it off. The fabric was going to mold—he needed to get Thancred a new one.

“If someone puts you down,” Thancred said into his leg, “Stand up for yourself.”

“What am I, a child?” Ikael asked, amused.

“Svaldthal,” said Thancred.

Ikael stopped.

Thancred grunted at him, and Ikael resumed his motions. “Svaldthal is—” He glanced up. Svaldthal wasn’t looking at them; Ikael relaxed. “—Not incorrect,” he finished.

“He’s completely incorrect,” Thancred replied. “If someone was behaving to… Alisaie, say, like Svaldthal is behaving towards you, what would you do?”

What? That was different. “That’s not the same,” Ikael said, surprised.

“Maybe not,” Thancred said. “But—ow.”

“Sorry.”

“But still; I cannot fight all your battles for you, my friend. I would like to, but apparently that’s,” he held up a hand to make quotation marks, “‘An unhealthy way of projecting my own insecurities and self-flagellation onto you,’ or something. I do not know. Krile told me that once. The point is, you have to look at yourself the way you look at the people you want to protect. Or at least not think ill of yourself.”

Ikael wasn’t sure. “I’ll think about it,” he said, because he _did_ owe Thancred a favour. “Now shut up and let me work—you have seaweed in your hair.”

Thancred muttered something indecipherable, but then went silent.

Ikael finished with unknotting Thancred’s hair, and started running his fingers through the strands in a gentle motion. No one had done this for Ikael in—a long time, and even not being the one lying down and grumbling ever time a lock got caught brought back feelings of nostalgia. He wondered if Thancred was doing this for him, or if it really did feel as nice as he remembered. Hm. Could hyurs purr?

“Can you purr?” Ikael asked Thancred, who raised his head to give Ikael a look that implied he was an idiot before settling back down again.

Probably not, then.

Still, he scratched behind Thancred's ears just in case.

~*~

Svaldthal had started to glare at them some five minutes ago. Thancred had briefly considered sticking his tongue out at him, but had ultimately decided it would have been in bad sport. Still, he had a feeling Svaldthal would decide to say something to them eventually—and sooner rather than later.

Ikael (who had started scratching him for some reason) was looking down at him with a soft smile, and apparently hadn’t notice Svaldthal’s angry gaze. Thancred was glad for that for the moment, but… well.

Ikael would never willingly start a confrontation, but he was made of surprisingly stern stuff—Thancred had faith in him. He sent Ikael an internal apology, then straightened up and wrapped his arms around him.

“Just hug me back,” he murmured to Ikael, bending his head, and Ikael complied immediately.

“Oh—are you feeling okay?” Ikael asked. The gentleness and concern in his voice made Thancred's heart dip in guilt, but he only squeezed tighter.

“Hold on,” he said to Ikael, “Alright? And remember that if you ever need this, you need only to ask. Forget Svaldthal, forget _anyone_ else—you have to put yourself first sometimes. Do not let them shame you.”

“I…” Ikael drew back. He looked extremely unwilling to do so. _Then don’t_ , Thancred wanted to tell him. _If you need something when it is offered,_ take _it._

“Alright, that’s enough of this shit.”

Thancred looked up at Svaldthal calmly. He had noticed him approach. Ikael, who had gone completely still… hadn’t.

“’kael,” Svaldthal ordered, “Enough touchy time. You two are worse than M’ara and Colette, and even if you _are_ fucking, you’re men, aren’t you? Act like it.”

Ikael looked at Thancred. Thancred looked back. Ikael closed his eyes, then slowly crawled next to him and turned around.

“It’s, ah, _I_ kael,” he said, and his smile stretched, false, across his face. Thancred grinned inwardly.

Svaldthal raised an eyebrow. “Sure thing, ’kael,” he said, and laughed. Ikael’s smile tightened.

“Really,” he said into the short silence that followed. “Two syllables. It’s not that hard.”

Svaldthal squinted at him. “Has the kitten grown a backbone?” he mocked. “Fat lot of good it’ll do you. I ain’t about to take you seriously, ’ _kael_ , just because you’ve decided you don’t need to be disgusting right this second.”

“Disgusting?” Ikael said. “Thancred gave me a _hug_. That was _it._ ” His voice faltered, and Thancred patted him encouragingly on the back before he could lose steam. It was adorable watching them grow up.

“He gave you a hug, and earlier he gave you another hug, and before that _another_. How many hugs does one man fuckin’ need? You need to grow a godsdamned pair and learn to handle things, kid.”

“Whatever I’m doing is not affecting _you_ ,” Ikael said. “And I know how to ‘handle’ things, Svaldthal. I’ve ‘handled’ a lot, believe me.”

This was true.

Svaldthal’s face twisted into something ugly. “Look,” he said, voice low, “You’re too fucking _soft_. Just accept it and shut up. You can’t skip through life like a fuckin’ child, hoping someone will give you a kiss on the cheek and a hug ever time you get a bit lonely. It’s a disgrace, watching you. A disgrace to your profession, a disgrace to your _gender_.” Ikael stiffened. “Makes me wanna fuckin’ throw up. So _stop_.”

Thancred raised an eyebrow. “If the concept of simple affection is so foreign to you,” he said, deciding to finally speak up, “Ikael here is a marvelous teacher. _Our_ interactions, of course, began with open-mouthed kissing, but you’d probably want to start with something more… novice.”

Svaldthal gaped at him, and Ikael groaned.

“ _Thancred_ ,” he hissed, glaring at him, and Thancred shrugged. He was only here to provide hugs and smart commentary, after all.

“Svaldthal,” Ikael said firmly, apparently having finally found his voice, “I am sorry if I am making you uncomfortable for any personal reasons. And if that is the case, then I will stop.”

“Ain’t impersonal if you decide to act like—"

“But,” Ikael interrupted, voice hardening, “If your problem truly likes with my _gender_ , or some inane concept of _manliness_ , then I’ll have to tell you to kindly fuck off. I have no patience for people who think that way—I have dealt with that _enough_ ,” He made a cutting motion, “in my lifetime. I can act however I wish to. If I were not a man, I would act the same. It doesn’t change anything about me, and no one is a _disgrace_ to _anything_ for wanting something as simple and natural as affection. If you are coming at me, you are coming at everyone else who is like me, and I will not have that. So: fuck _off_.”

Thancred sighed. Of course Ikael would only defend _himself_ if he was simultaneously defending an entire group of people. _Ah well_ , he thought as Svaldthal stared. _Small steps_.

“Is this where I threaten to poison your food?” Thancred wondered idly. It was time for the grand finale. “Stab you? Tell your entire family that your deepest, darkest secret is a desire for a littwe _huggie-wuggie?”_

Svaldthal’s face contorted, and he stepped forward threateningly. “ _You little fuckin_ —”

“You leave _him_ alone,” Ikael said, rising to his feet in one swift movement, and voice was _beautifully_ dangerous. Svaldthal froze. Thancred grinned. “And you know what, Svaldthal? Mor Dhona is that way.” He pointed. “We are going to _stop_ having this conversation now, and I am going to get some fucking _sleep_ , and if you are not gone by morning, we will have a _problem_. _Do you understand me?_ ”

Thancred didn’t know whether Ikael had noticed the black mist slowly wrapping its way around his body, nor the aether pulsing anger at Svaldthal with his every word—detectable even to _Thancred_ —but his words rang with a solid finality that dared to be challenged, and Thancred did not think Svaldthal was going to try.

Svaldthal nodded, looking more than a little nervous, and even when Thancred waggled his eyebrows at him teasingly, he didn’t say anything. _Perfect._

Thancred sprang up and pecked Ikael on the cheek. “I love it when you get all protective over me, dear,” he said.

Ikael snorted. Svaldthal looked as if the sound would chase him in his nightmares for years to come.

~*~

True to his nod, Svaldthal was gone when Ikael woke up. Ikael felt a bit guilty for yelling at him the way he had the night before, but… well. If anything, Thancred seemed oddly proud.

They made their way to Mor Dhona slowly, both sharing some unspoken agreement that they would not risk running into Svaldthal. As it was, they didn’t, and it was a lovely orange evening when Ikael pushed open the door at the end of the Seventh Heaven. He breathed in, taking in a large lungful of dusty and slightly stale air. It smelled like _home_.

“Well, I am going to take a bath,” Thancred said, raking a hand through his hair and making a face. “Hells, I think I still have seaweed in my hair. _Yech_.”

Ikael chuckled at him, waving him away, and headed to his room to unpack. He’d make them dinner—something _without_ fish.

He ended up mashing some potatoes, corn, and beef that he had had to bribe Alys to obtain. Thancred rapped on his door to give him his clothes back, Ikael dragged him in and forced him to eat, and then they had finished, and the stars were twinkling a lullaby at Ikael as he lay in his bed.

Ikael dreamed of burning red eyes, of a voice whispering to him in the dark, of being abandoned at the end of the world.

He woke up.

It wasn’t the first time it had happened. He lay there for a moment as he always did, feeling the sweat gluing his skin to the blanket, feeling his heart race in his chest, feeling imaginary fear sharpen his senses. Usually he would lay like that until morning came, only clutching at his covers for comfort.

He rose, and padded over to Thancred's room.

He knocked, softly.

The door opened, and Thancred stood there, a few ilms (three to be exact—Ikael had counted) taller than Ikael, looking down at him with a calm gaze.

He was wearing a thin, short-sleeved sleeping shirt and loose brais, the fabric faded and soft. He looked… peaceful.

“Can I come in?” Ikael asked into the moonlight setting Thancred's hair alight with silver.

Thancred nodded, stepping back, and shut the door quietly behind him.

“What do you need?” he asked Ikael. His voice matched his clothing; soft and comfortable.

“I had a nightmare,” Ikael said. “Can I stay here tonight?”

“No hogging the covers,” was Thancred's response. He climbed into his bed and lifted the sheet.

Ikael smiled.

~*~

Ikael didn’t snore—Thancred already knew this. Yet he had never thought about it before—was it a miqo’te thing, perhaps? Ah, no matter.

Thancred remembered something unexpectedly, and shifted his arm so he could scratch tentatively behind Ikael’s ears. Would he…? Surely not, but…

Ikael burrowed his head into the pillow, apparently not entirely asleep yet. Thancred was about to withdraw his hand, not wanting to disturb him, but then…

 _Oh_ , that was _definitely_ not a sound Thancred was able to create. He grinned. Ikael could _purr_ , _ha._ He wondered if he could use this information to blackmail Y’shtola somehow.

“Go the fuck to sleep,” Ikael mumbled.

Thancred chuckled silently, gave Ikael a few extra pats, and then let his consciousness slip away into the night.

~*~

 

**Author's Note:**

> Thancred should become a puppeteer for all those strings he's pulling
> 
> The original idea involved modeling Svaldthal's mindset to be that of toxic masculinity, then I realized that all of those guys are also the "no homo" people. Still, I didn't want to make the story specifically about homophobia (for multiple reasons). I still tagged it just in case, but I wanted to clarify that that's not the root of his problem.
> 
> (more ikael and possible hints for next fic on [ tumblr ](http://draw-you-coward.tumblr.com/))


End file.


> this one was inspired loosely by [Lessons from a Bard](http://archiveofourown.org/works/4607832) by Lekiana.

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> (happens after [ "So you can feel better"](http://archiveofourown.org/works/13439232))

“Don’t worry; you’ll get it,” Thancred said calmly. The music hummed in the distance, a faint, sweet melody guiding their steps.

Or at least attempting to. Ikael made a noise of frustration, looking straight down onto the floor at their feet. “I won’t!” he exclaimed. “Where do I step?”

“Hm.” Thancred considered. Perhaps they had been doing this wrong, after all. “Do you prefer to be the one giving or taking control in your relationships?”

Ikael gave him a look. “I am not having that conversation with you,” he said.

Thancred let go of his hand, and Ikael stared at him in restless confusion as he rearranged them, moving their hands into different positions.

“On my shoulder. Here.” Thancred was leading now. Perhaps it would be easiest if Ikael only had to follow. “Good. Now step with me…”

Ikael did, his movements still as stilted and hesitant as they had been for the entire past bell. But Thancred was patient, and easily corrected him when he misstepped.

“Your hand is sweating,” Ikael complained after a few minutes of this.

“That is your hand, not mine. Come now: one, two, three, four. That’s it.”

Ikael’s grip tightened on his shoulder, nails digging in. His gaze was fixed on their feet. But he was improving, very slowly.

 _Very_ slowly.

Ikael stepped on Thancred's foot and squeaked, then pulled away abruptly and screamed a little.

“No! I can’t. I’m terrible and I’ll never improve.”

Alright, they could take a break. “You are not terrible,” Thancred reassured firmly, “You are learning. But we will break for a moment.”

Ikael sighed in relief and exhaustion, and hoisted himself up onto the nearby railing. Thancred sat down next to him, bumping Ikael’s elbow with his.

Ikael dropped his face onto Thancred's shoulder. “No one will ever want to dance with me,” he mumbled, voice muffled.

Thancred patted him on the head, staring off into the distance. “Do not be like that,” he said. “Besides, even if this is not your strong suit, you have a lot of other talents. A man’s worth is not proven by his ability to dance alone.”

Ikael snorted unexpectedly, and after a second Thancred rolled his eyes. “Mature,” he said through a smile.

The musicians finished their current song and breaked for the moment, and Ikael and Thancred sat there, taking a rest as well. They would get back to it, later.

There was time.

~*~

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> if u got a prompt send it to me somehow (tumblr is linked at the end of like every fic) and I'll probably write it!


	2. sick

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> the "time ikael got a cold" mentioned in uhhh shattering stars. didn't want to write an entire other sickfic, so here's a short one! sort of :o

“And _there_ is the man of the day. Why, I had been convinced you were infirm and suffering, but here you are, lying in bed doing nothing. Relaxing, even.”

Ikael, face barely visible underneath the large, messy pile of blankets haphazardly stacked on top of him, narrowed his eyes at Thancred. Unfortunately, as he had bundled himself in all the way up to his nose, the effect was more comical than menacing.

“’m not feelig well,” Ikael mumbled, voice muffled. The curtains were drawn, casting the room in a faded, dull light that matched his pallor.

Thancred cupped a hand to his ear. “I’m sorry? You’re not _what_?”

Ikael scowled at him, pulling his blankets up even higher. “Go ’way,” he grumbled pathetically.

“I can’t hear you underneath all of that congestion,” Thancred said, beginning to grin.

Ikael glared, then turned his head, barely enough to burrow into his pillow. His form moved underneath the covers, curling in on itself away from Thancred. He didn’t say anything.

Thancred made a faux-sympathetic noise. “Come now, you aren’t going to pout because of that, are you?”

Ikael curled up tighter. His visible ear, already folded low, twitched. Thancred got the distinct impression that he was waiting for Thancred to leave him alone.

Thancred felt his conscience twinge. He was not egoistic enough to fail to recognize when he had pushed too far, and from the looks of it, Ikael was too ill to withstand his jibes at the moment. Thancred moved to the side of the bed Ikael was facing and bent down on his knee.

“Well I am sure you have earned a little pouting, hm?” Thancred said gently, tilting his head in an attempt to make eye contact. “How are you feeling?”

Ikael’s glassy gaze met his. He blinked, eyelashes fluttering slowly, and sniffled.

“Gh,” he mumbled. His body wriggled closer to itself.

“Your best bet is sleep now, or so I have been told,” said Thancred. “I shall leave you be, but get better soon, alright?” He brushed his fingertips along the frame of Ikael’s face.

Ikael seemed to nod, closing his eyes, and Thancred hesitated for but a moment before laying a kiss on his forehead. “I’ll come back later,” he murmured, and rose to leave.

 He looked back for a second to check on Ikael. He was lying still, and his breathing wasn’t obvious due to the sheer volume of blankets piled on him, but he didn’t seem dead, at least.

Thancred took in the sight and felt an affectionate smile tug at his lips. He closed the door quietly, so as not to wake his friend.

~*~

Ikael chuckled throatily. His voice was hoarse, but his overall health was a lot better than it had been a few days ago. Seated beside him, legs crossed, Thancred smirked.

“Give me a moment! A moment. I can _sit up_ ,” Ikael asserted, hoisting himself up by an arm. “I am not an invalid.”

“Any _more_ ,” Thancred said. He raised the bowl he held in his hands. “Do you think you can hold this, or do I have to feed it to you with the spoon?”

Ikael slapped his arm lightly, and took the soup with a grin. “See?” he said. “Perfectly capable.”

“Debatable,” Thancred returned, craning his neck around to make a show of looking about the room.

Ikael raised an eyebrow. “What are you searching for?”

“Ah… a washcloth, to clean you up when you spill all over yourself,” said Thancred with a beatific smile.

Ikael scoffed. “I will _throw_ this at you,” he said, but he was still grinning. “Then see whom you will have to clean up.”

“Still you,” Thancred shot back easily. “I doubt you can throw very far with those little stick arms. How much muscle mass did you lose, do you think?”

Ikael’s grin froze, and his eyes widened. “Wait,” he said. Then, “No, Thancred—that’s a valid—don’t _laugh_ —I’ll have to... _ugh_ , stop!” He whined and hit Thancred with the spoon. Thancred kept laughing.

Eventually, Ikael huffed and rolled his eyes, and stuck a spoonful of warm soup in his mouth. Thancred breathed through the last of his chuckles and watched Ikael eat, occasionally dabbing at his mouth with the blanket and dodging the resulting spoon-hit. It was the most fun he had had in _weeks_.

They spent the afternoon like that, happy, not minding their other responsibilities. There might have been more important matters at hand, but… well. They could wait.

~*~


	3. slip of the tongue

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> Now this one isn't technically canon of 'ikael.' It's a purely indulgent angst fic that I wrote back in early december when I was trying to juggle where the characters fit together. Therefore, it doesn't necessarily fit into the narrative, either interpersonally or chronologically.  
> Also, it's unfinished, and I did technically write it over a month ago with 0 intention of showing it anyone ever, so please excuse the general hot mess.

****

“How could you say that to me?! _You_ , of all people! After everything we’ve been through!”

Lyse was standing, had pushed herself up with trembling hands now clenched into fists, was staring at him with blue eyes of fury. Ikael’s lips were parted, eyes wide in surprise, hands raised to calm her.

“I—I didn’t mean—” It had just been a slip of the tongue. A slip of the tongue that had led to a question asked in an odd voice, her eyes downcast, and then he had told her (and immediately felt his mistake drip like molten lead out of his mouth), and now she was furious, and hurt.

“Well, obviously you did!” Her voice was shaking. He felt horrible, terrible, absolutely repugnant. “How could you… ‘I think you’d make a terrible leader. You’re the least qualified person for the job.’ Who… who _says_ that to someone? To a _friend_?”

“Lyse, I’m sorry.” He looked at her imploringly, begging her to understand. “I… I didn’t mean to hurt—”

“You didn’t mean to _hurt_ me?!” Now her voice was shrill. “Well, you did, Ikael! You knew this was all I had been thinking of, since—you knew how much this meant to me! How could you?”

She sounded on the verge of tears now, and— _gods_ , he was such an arse. “I’m so sorry,” he repeated, face falling, and almost reached out to her before thinking better of it. “I didn’t mean it like—look, I… I don’t think you can’t become a good leader in time, I just—there are qualities that you have yet to develop, I mean, and—hey, when I first started out, I was a terrible fighter—”

“‘Qualities?’” she repeated, face twisted, and his heart dropped. “W-what _fucking_ qualities do I not have that don’t fit your standard? Why am I not good enough for you?”

Ikael cringed at the swear; she must be incredibly upset right now. “Lyse, no, you’re plenty good enough for me—I have faith in you, don’t—”

“Well, it’s not like you’re so perfect either!” Her countenance was quickly changing from dismayed to furious. “You’re so—you’re so soft! So… _sensitive_. Look how much you’re backpaddling now! At least I can hit someone without asking if they’re alright and crying about it for the rest of the day.”

That had never happened, to his knowledge. “Okay, that’s a fair—”

“And then you whine about being _lonely_ , because you can’t find any _friends_ that _care about you_ and can tolerate you asking for a hug every five minutes! Gods, no wonder, if you’re that clingy!”

Whatever Ikael had been going to say caught in his throat as his breathing stuttered. He felt as if a rock had been hurled at his chest. He forced himself to swallow, thickly, but all desire to speak had suddenly fled. He felt his ears drop low, low to the ground and his tail curl around his legs.

(He hadn’t had a hug in _months_ , actually, _too long_ —)

Ikael averted his eyes, his lids heavy, and silence reigned for a long, uncomfortable moment. The other Scions were there, awkward presences lingering in a confrontation not of their making. Ikael could not focus on them. He did not know how they could be reacting to all of this.

He heard an angry, abrasive rush of air that could have been a sigh, and then Lyse stormed off, taking her fury with her.

Another awkward minute passed, and was only broken by Alphinaud saying, “Well… uh,” before he trailed off, unsure of how to continue.

Ikael forced himself upright. His body felt like gelatin. “I… I think I…” He did not know what to say. He gestured in an ambiguous direction, signalling his intent to leave, and walked away, tail between his legs, not daring to meet anyone’s eyes.

~*~

“There you are.”

Ikael’s ear flicked upwards at the sound, but he did not turn to look at the newcomer. Instead he kept picking at the grass, digging his nails in the soil before uprooting it, one blade at a time.

Someone sat down next to him, sighing a little at the hard ground. Thancred. Ikael clenched his jaw, grabbed a loose fistful of grass before releasing it, and then said,

“You want me to talk to Lyse.”

Thancred did not reply straight away. Ikael sensed him lean back, saw his legs uncross to stretch out. He looked back down.

“I had a hard time finding you, you know,” Thancred commented. “Well, almost,” he rectified. His voice was light, noncommittal.

He was probably none too happy with Ikael for upsetting one of his friends. Ikael made a pained grimace, guilt weighing him down heavily. He would have to apologize to Lyse, and perhaps explain himself, if she was willing to listen.

“How is she?” Ikael asked. He looked back, then, somewhere in the proximity of Thancred’s shoulder.

Thancred looked at him. “How is _she_?” he repeated, his intonation almost odd.

Ikael nodded. “Has she… is she less upset?”

Thancred said nothing for a moment, then, “Somewhat. It has been a couple of hours; if you wanted to talk to her, you might try to do so now.”

Ikael nodded, and stood up. Try. He had to, at least. At the very least he had to apologize. “Thank you,” he said to Thancred’s chin.

“She is by the garden,” Thancred replied. Ikael started to walk away. “And, Ikael?”

He glanced back.

“Try looking her in the eye,” Thancred said.

Ikael nodded, feeling his ears flatten back briefly. He left.

“You have a tell when you lie, you know,” Thancred said to empty air.

~*~

Ikael found Lyse in the garden as Thancred had told him, kneeling between flowers.

He closed his eyes, steeled himself. “Lyse,” he called out as he opened them.

She spun around, a whirl of red cloth following her, and he immediately averted his gaze. (He couldn’t.)

“I’m sorry,” he said in a rush, before she could speak, if she had wanted to. “I’m so sorry I hurt you. I—” He swallowed, “I shouldn’t have—at the very least I should have phrased it better, I mean, and, gods, I feel terrible.”

“Ikael,” she said, and she didn’t sound gentle, exactly, but her voice was lacking the anger it had been so steeped in earlier. “I… it’s… ugh.” She sighed, looked down, looked back up, and started again.

“Yes, it was wrong of you to say it like that,” she said. “But… you weren’t incorrect. I’m not really qualified to lead this rebellion, am I?”

She sounded… strangely sure of her words. Ikael glanced up in confusion, saw her wearing a bemused smile of all things, before she continued.

“I… had a talk with Y’shtola, actually, just now, and she said—” Lyse fidgeted, “Well, she said a lot of things. But among those things was that I shouldn’t get so angry if someone points out my faults. I guess it just—” She squeezed her eyes shut for a second, “—It meant a lot, coming from you. You have been, in many ways, my rock, in recent events, and to hear that you honestly thought that of me was… well, it wasn’t a truth I was prepared to face.”

Ikael flitted his gaze down guiltily. “I’m sorry,” he repeated softly, feeling like a broken mammet.

“It… It’s alright, Ikael. I… I forgive you. And hey, it’s not like I said very nice things to you either, eh? I should be apologizing too.”

She sounded like she was smiling. Ikael said, “That’s not—I deserved that. Don’t—i-it’s fine. I’m glad you’re alright.”

He looked at her, then. “And Lyse, I’ve no doubt that you’ll turn out to be a great leader.”

She looked shocked for a second, then her eyes crinkled in a smile. “Thank you, Ikael,” she said softly.

~*~

Thancred was still there when he got back. Ikael paused, then said, “I apologized to Lyse. She’s doing a lot better now.”

Thancred glanced up. “Ah, is she? Good, good.”

Ikael nodded, assuming that since he had settled things with Lyse, Thancred would leave. He didn’t.

“Er, is there something you needed?” Ikael ventured after a moment.

Thancred seemed to deliberate something, before frowning slightly and saying, “No, I suppose there’s nothing I’m really doing here, is there?” He jumped to his feet after that strange statement, nodded to Ikael, and left.

Ikael felt a wave of… _something_ wash over him, and he hunched his shoulders, trying desperately to ignore it. He wasn’t… he wasn’t going to be—

_Gods, no wonder, if you’re that clingy._

—Thancred owed him nothing. No one did. But… it felt like—

He really wanted—

No, gods, he didn’t deserve—he shouldn’t need—it wasn’t normal. Why was he being so selfish? He had the Scions, he had a few scattered friends outside of them, he kept in friendly contact with them. So why did his stomach feel so hollow?

Ugh. He was being pathetic. He curled up on the ground, hunched his back, drew his knees up and buried his head in them. He would wait this out; he’d get over it soon, probably.

But—honestly. It didn’t happen to anyone else. Why him? Oversensitive, clingy bastard.

He felt his breathing hitch. He burrowed further into his knees, tightening his arms. He’d stay like this until he got over it.

(Gods, he really, _really_ wanted a hug.)

~*~

“Ikael?”

Ikael automatically stumbled to his feet, startled. A few yalms away, Thancred was staring at him, frowning.

“Thancred! I—I was just thinking, uh,” His voice sounded thick. He cleared his throat. “I should… I should probably… go somewhere.” He was mumbling, he knew, dragging his gaze down as he talked. “I mean, I… it’s probably for the best. To spend some time, ah… away. Kugane has samurais; I thought…”

He thought he could go and train with them, learn their ways, he was going to say. Because their fighting style interested him. He would go to Kugane and learn how they thought, because he believed the samurais’ unique discipline would align with his chakras in a new and…

He had a formulated response. He had worked out what to say. He said, “Uh, swords, and… you know? It would be interesting, I mean. To, um.” The lump in his throat was making it hard for him to get any more words out. He blinked, rapidly, because his vision had started to blur—in fact, his voice was far too shaky to make any sort of sense, and why was he mumbling? It shouldn’t be so hard to speak properly.

“I-I-I…” Why was he stuttering? Why were his hands shaking so violently? This was hardly an upsetting conversation. Why couldn’t he—

“Have you been crying?” Thancred said softly.

 _Fuck_.

At those words, Ikael’s remaining, pitiful resistance crumbled, and he turned away with a hiccupping gasp. He lifted a trembling hand to his mouth to cover it, inhaling raggedly through the gaps in his fingers.

He heard Thancred curse quietly, before he said, “I apologize, that was—untactful of me. I should have—” Ikael sniffled sharply, breathing getting shakier, and Thancred swore again, then started moving about rapidly. “Ah—Twelve, I knew I should have stayed. I just had a thought to get you some food, that was all—Here.”

Suddenly, a handkerchief was being offered to him, and Ikael blinked at it in bemusement before he hesitantly accepted it.

“Th-thank you,” he stammered, dabbing at his eyes. “I-I’m s-sorry, this is p-pathet—”

“Hush, now,” Thancred interrupted gently. “You are allowed to have a negative reaction to things, my friend. It is mine own fault for leaving you alone.”

Ikael became aware of a hand resting easily on his back. “Y-you don’t have to d-do that,” he said, shrugging it off. “I-I shouldn’t need… anything. I… I’m pathetic, th-this is childish…” A sob rose in his throat, choking off any more words.

“You most assuredly are _not_ pathetic.” Thancred sounded stern. Ikael dared a look at him—he was frowning. Ikael quickly ducked his head back down.

“This is not more than what you should want for,” Thancred continued, and placed his arm firmly around Ikael’s shoulders. Ikael shuddered, and tried not to melt into the touch. “It is the bare minimum, I would say. And,” his tone softened, “Far less than you deserve.”

He was so _close_. Ikael wanted to turn to him and beg for an embrace, feel safe and secure and… and…

“I… I can’t ask—I-I… I can’t—” he gasped, “L-Lyse was right, I’m so _c-clingy_ and _stupid_ a-and—”

“Lyse was not in _any way_ right,” Thancred said sharply. “You are _not_ clingy. You are not _stupid_. You are… you are wonderful, and kind, and,” This was too much. Thancred’s voice was too gentle. _It was too much—_ “Compassionate, and caring, and that is _not_ a weakness. I think the _least_ you should get is the right to ask for hugs, of all harmless things.”

Ikael sobbed.

Thancred made a consoling noise, and then pulled him into his chest, and Ikael lacked the strength to resist, and the hug felt so _good_ and gods, _he really needed this_ and he hoped it would last forever.

“Don’t go,” he hiccupped into Thancred’s collarbone. “P-Please, just one more minute.”

He felt Thancred’s arms tighten around him. “We will stay like this for as long as you wish,” Thancred said softly, “And then a little longer.”

Ikael found himself making an odd noise somewhere between a laugh and another hiccup, and rested his forehead against Thancred’s neck. Thancred smelled like warmth and quickness and steel, and a little bit of sweat. Ikael closed his eyes.

“Thank you,” he murmured a few minutes later once his breathing had calmed, and the hand that had been gently rubbing his back paused for a moment before resuming.

“Do not feel the need to thank me,” Thancred replied, keeping his voice low. “I am but acting as a decent friend should. And… Ikael. We are friends, alright? I… don’t mean to pry, but what Lyse said—”

“’S okay,” Ikael mumbled. “I… had a chat with her when we were in the Steppes a while back. I had been feeling a bit… down, and uh, I suppose that influenced how I was thinking.” He let out a small sigh. He had been missing his soul crystal, the half that Myste had taken, and without it all of his darker thoughts were left without an anchor, but he wasn’t about to tell Thancred that.

“Ah.” Thancred was quiet for a moment. Then he said, “She shouldn’t have said any of that.”

“It’s alright,” Ikael said, “She was angry.”

“Even so.” Ikael pulled back a little at the tone of Thancred’s voice, glancing up at his face. He was frowning. “There are some things that people let slip when they are angry, and then there are some things that are personal, and shouldn’t be shared. I know she apologized, and you don’t mind, but…” His frown deepened. “To me, that would have been crossing a line.”

“She didn’t apologize,” Ikael said before he could stop himself. Thancred went still. Ikael hastily amended, “I cut her off. It’s okay—”

“Ikael,” Thancred said, voice nearly a growl, “Sometimes I think your forgiving nature lets people take a little too much advantage of you.”

Ikael hugged him tighter, rested his head on Thancred’s chest in an attempt to calm him some. “Thancred, it’s _fine_ ,” he said mollifyingly. “I am sure she…”

He hesitated.

He _felt_ Thancred grit his teeth. “You are sure she what?” Thancred murmured, voice very, very even.

(He still held Ikael in an embrace. He was warm.)

Ikael sighed. “I don’t—know. She seemed like she regretted what she said. I don’t think…. She is not a cruel person, Thancred. I don’t…” He trailed off.

He ducked his head down, took a deep breath. Thancred did not say anything.

“Do you think she meant it?” he whispered.

Thancred’s arms tightened around him. “No,” he said firmly.

Ikael wanted to ask if he was sure.

Thancred said, “She did not mean a word.”

“You could tell?” Ikael asked, hopeful.

A pause, and then Thancred said, “She just said something she knew would upset you—she did not care if it was true or not. Whatever she said to you in the Steppes when you confided in her, Ikael—that I would put more trust in.”

Ikael closed his eyes. Then he breathed out, slowly exhaling the remainder of his grief.

“I’m sorry I’m so insecure,” he said softly.

“It is in everyone’s nature to be insecure,” Thancred replied. “But if you ever feel like you are being affected strongly by something conceivably small? Come talk to me. I will listen.”

Ikael rubbed his head briefly under Thancred’s jaw. “Thank you,” he whispered.

“I do not want you to feel lonely,” Thancred said quietly. “It is a terrible feeling, to feel as if you have no one. You of all people should never be subject to it.”

“That feeling hounds me,” Ikael confessed. “It is a constant. Whenever I look back, whenever I take a break, it is there.”

Thancred held him tightly for a moment. “You have me,” he said.  

Ikael’s heart was floating with warmth. “And you me,” he replied, earnest. “I would do anything for—any of you. Please. And all of this means,” he inhaled sharply, “A lot to me. Thank you.”

“You already said that,” Thancred teased after a brief moment, “Sap.”

Ikael simply smiled—he had felt Thancred swallow around a dry throat, heard his heartbeat quicken briefly. Thancred was as much of a sap as he was.

“I am not the only one who is being kitten,” Ikael shot back.

“Oh? I half expect you to start purring.”

 Ikael grinned. There was much comfort to be found in easy banter. “My purring is reserved for… _special_ occasions, and I don’t think you qualify.”

“That is far more information than I am comfortable with,” Thancred said.

“Are you sure?” Ikael asked, blinking up at him innocently. “You mean you _don’t_ want to hear about proper techniques for giving—”

“There is crass, and then there is you,” Thancred interrupted him loudly. “It’s a wonder you haven’t scarred Alphinaud for life yet.”

“ _Me?_ You should hear yourself sometimes!”

Thancred stepped back half a fulm to put a hand to his chest. “I am a teacher in the ways of adulthood,” he said.

“From what I’ve heard from the twins, all you do is say something ‘sickening’ and then leave.”

“I believe in the impact of my tutelage.”


	4. gift

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> The first part of this is a very very lovely writing gift from the very very lovely [ CorsetJinx ](http://archiveofourown.org/users/CorsetJinx/pseuds/CorsetJinx)!!!! i love it. you love it! so i added to it c:  
> (they wrote the part until the break, mine is after)

“You’re certain that this is alright?” Thancred asks with some concern, eyeing the small pile of wrapped goodies. He’s counted two meat pies and a rainbow of delicate macarons, and that’s not including the addition of three ether potions and a hard-won elixir.

Luli barely glances his way as she gingerly eases the lid off the stewpot she’s spent the last half-hour guarding. Stirring its contents, she breathes in the fragrant steam before reaching for the cilantro.

“Of course.” Gently scattering a pinch of the dried herb into the pot, she offered him a smile. “I’ve seen him running around Rhalgr’s Reach often enough. He’s got the look of a monk - and monks have big appetites. I don’t mind sharing the extra I make with a fellow adventurer. It’ll go bad before any of the others come back, anyway.”

Thancred slowly nods, watching her put the cilantro back into the spice rack along her belt and carefully inching his hand towards the unattended plate of tarts cooling next to him. He’s just gotten one between his fingers when the lalafell turns to glare at him, the look on her face promising that he’ll soon regret his attempt at theft if he doesn’t let go of the tart.

He drops it back onto the plate, backing away with both hands raised. “Sorry.”

The paladin of Anemone’s group stares him down for a moment longer, calculating, before turning away. “Oh, and Thancred?”

“Yes, Luli?” He answers sweetly, popping half of a different tart into his mouth. Chewing quickly, he licks the sugar from his lips just as she turns her head to regard him again. Trying to look the very picture of innocence, he smiles as charmingly as he can with half a stolen tart behind his back.

“If anything goes missing from your friend’s care package, you’re going hunting with Dusk for the next three weeks. Through the swamp.” She smiles at the look on his face, sweet as spun sugar.

Thancred swallows, forcing the stiff muscles in his neck to loosen enough for him to nod. “Understood.” He assures in a small voice, carefully backing away from her workstation. As soon as he’s out of her scope of attention he hastily downs the rest of the tart and searches for something to drink while the finishing touches to Ikael’s gift are added.

~*~

Thancred knocks on Ikael’s door, not waiting for a response before entering.

“I come bearing gifts,” he says, carefully holding his parcel in his hands. He has received very specifics instructions to keep it upright, and does not particularly want to face anyone’s resulting wrath.

Ikael, sitting in his bed holding what appears to be—is that Thancred’s poetry book? Er, no matter—glances up. He tries to say something, croaks out a strange noise, clears his throat, and tries again.

“I don’t want any more unsolicited ‘relationship’ advice, thanks,” he says. He squints. “What are you holding? You smell like sweet tarts.”

“I am going to pretend you did not just say that, because that is truly frightening,” Thancred says, sitting on the bed. “And _you_ smell disgusting, so while you eat this— _slowly_ —I am going to open a window.”

Ikael brightens up and puts what is definitely Thancred's poetry book down—he hadn’t gotten very far in, from the looks of it. “You got me food?” he asks.

Thancred gets up to open the window—it really does smell in here. “I have requested from a friend what appears to be enough supplements and sweets to feed an army, yes. She was very generous; doubtless she observed you rescuing starving orphans from a burning building, or some such act.”

“ _Oh.”_ He can hear Ikael’s soft intake of surprise behind him as he opens the box. “This is… _Thancred_.”

“That’s my name. Don’t wear it out.”

“No—come here. Come.”

Thancred, somewhat nervously, goes back to Ikael, who looks at him with shining eyes.

“Tell your friend thanks,” Ikael says whole-heartedly. “This is so _lovely_. No—come here.” He beckons with his hand, and Thancred begrudgingly crawls closer to him.

Ikael gives him a long hug. His strength is recovering well—that is good. Thancred begins to pull away, embarrassed by being the focus of Ikael’s gratefulness, but then Ikael tugs him in a bit and kisses him on the cheek.

Thancred is definitely feeling flustered now. He did not do _that_ much.

“Thank you,” Ikael murmurs, a smile lifting his eyes, and Thancred nods briefly, then prepares to make some smart remark. He opens his mouth. Ikael says,

“Oh, and give your friend some of my leftover cake for whatever you stole from her, yeah?”

Thancred's mouth closes with a snap. Oh.

~*~


	5. oh no, fire

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> a fun little prompt fill of sorts. I've always said this happened at some point...

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> ([ "flowing fast"](http://archiveofourown.org/works/13481628) happens a little after this)

Ikael was screeching, running around in frantic circles. Alphinaud was shaking his head in his hands, and Alisaie was doing absolutely nothing while the Warrior of Light streaked around like a blazing madman.

“Stay _still_!” Y’shtola barked, aiming with her cane and sending a wave of water crashing towards Ikael. It missed. He kept screaming. The smell of burning fur started to fill the room.

“You are just making it worse,” Y’shtola scolded, unconsciously wrinkling her nose. Ikael screamed back at her in response, whipping by, his tail a bright streak of black and brown and… fire.

“Thancred!” Alphinaud yelled, and Thancred, having just stepped out into the room to enquire about what was smelling so _horrendous_ , froze.

“What,” he said. He started to take in the scene. Ikael was moving… very fast.

“Catch him!” Alphinaud said, just as Ikael whizzed by. Without thinking, Thancred stuck out his leg.

Ikael’s screaming reached a higher pitch as he tripped. Thancred quickly caught him, and was immediately assaulted by an armful of squirming, burning, panicking miqo’te.

“Good, now hold him,” Y’shtola muttered, readying her cane again. Thancred couldn’t hear her very well because Ikael was shrieking in his face.

Nothing happened after at least two seconds. Ikael started struggling harder, pupils blown wide in fright. He pulled back his lips and hissed at Thancred—actually _hissed_. As he was still making an ungodly amount of noise, the combined effect was rather strange.

“ _Y’shtola_ ,” Thancred said urgently. He dodged a swipe to the face.

“Be ready!” Y’shtola called, and Thancred did not get a chance to respond as he was promptly drenched in a dozen buckets’ worth of water. Directly into his ear, Ikael let out a panicked squeal.

“ _There_ you go.” Y’shtola sounded satisfied. She rested her hands on the top of her cane. “See; all you had to do was stop _moving_ for a second.”

She appeared to be addressing Ikael. He replied, “ _Hhhh!_ ”

Thancred dared a look at his tail. It was…

“Oh,” he said, peering at it.

Ikael immediately looked down. He screamed a little.

“It’ll grow… back?” Thancred assured him, shooting a questioning glance at Y’shtola, who shrugged.

“See? Y’shtola says it’ll grow back,” Thancred told Ikael anyway.

Ikael looked at him. Thancred smiled.

Thankfully for everyone involved, the fur did, in fact, grow back. Eventually.

~*~


	6. panic

There are—people. There are so many people around, all around him, and Ikael—there are _so_ many, pressing into him, milling about. _So many,_ and none of them are his friends.

They speak. They make noise. They talk, they walk, they _smell_. They’re with their own—they laugh, they chat, they buy things, they’re _everywhere_ and they’re close by, moving, like rocks—and Ikael is _lost._

He wants to… punch something. Maybe? He does not know. He feels… so restless. So…

There are _so many_ people—

He is breathing faster, now, into his own skin. Into his heart, his lungs, his soul— _Where are his friends? Have they left him where are they is he alone in this cascade of people and smells and sounds and blocked-out shapes where are they WHERE ARE THEY—_

“Ikael!” A hand on his shoulder.

He startles, badly, whipping around, but he latches onto Thancred's voice—he recognizes him—Thancred is smiling in an absent-minded sort of way, head cocked.

“There you are,” he says. “Ah, I thought we’d lost you! It’s hard to keep track of everyone when there’s a festival going on, isn’t it?”

There is a noise. Ikael stares at him, at the fall of his hair and the tilt of his smile and the texture of his skin

“Ikael?” Thancred starts to frown, and his fingers tighten on Ikael’s shoulder. He peers at Ikael, gradually.

“You…” Thancred says. His eyes dart to Ikael’s, and slowly, he brings up a hand to push aside Ikael’s bangs. His eyes flutter. Bend down.

Realization trickles onto Thancred's face like sweet water. He puts a hand to Ikael’s chest briefly, then takes his arm and starts to walk. “Come,” he says easily. Ikael does not know anything but to follow.

Thancred leads him to somewhere with no people, where they are in the shade and alone. Alone with each other. He turns to Ikael and puts Ikael’s hand on his heart.

“Breathe,” he instructs. “With me. Can you do that?”

Ikael wishes the noise would stop. It sounds like desperation. He curls his fingers.

“No,” Thancred says, gently taking his hand and straightening it. “Feel my breaths, all right?” He places it back. “In,” His chest expands, “Out.” It contracts.

The noise stretches out oddly. Oh, Ikael realizes. He’s making it.

“There we go,” says Thancred. “Easy does it. Focus on breathing, hm?”

Ikael nods, vigorously. Thancred touches his jaw to get him to stop.

“CanIcomecloser,” Ikael says.

“Pardon?” Thancred tilts his head forward. “Sorry; didn’t quite catch that.”

Ikael wants to _tug_ , but that’s not right. “Closer,” he mumbles. “Please?”

“Oh.” Thancred doesn’t sound upset. “Of course, Ikael.”

Ikael immediately presses directly into him (Thancred makes a somewhat surprised noise), and shimmies down a little until he can hear Thancred's heartbeat. It is instantly calming, once he goes quiet enough to listen.

He hears _scratch scratch shuffle_ and reaches up, moves Thancred's hand from the top of his head to behind his ear. He had remembered, if a bit incorrectly. The thought is nice.

After what might be a hundred heartbeats of this, Thancred asks, “Do you want to tell me what happened?”

The word “no” immediately comes to the tip of Ikael’s tongue, but he… considers. There are different kinds of want, he knows now. Does he feel like he should burden Thancred with his thoughts? No. Does he… does he _want_ to tell him? … Yes.

“I…” Ikael says. “Maybe? I don’t know.”

“That’s fine,” Thancred replies. “There is no pressure.”

Something occurs to Ikael. He says, “Uh.”

“What is it?” Thancred has nice hands. Ikael likes their texture.

Ikael breathes into the fabric of Thancred's shirt. He is wearing linen today. A good choice, considering the sun. Maybe they can nap later, Ikael thinks.

“… Y’shtola,” Ikael says eventually. “I want to talk to her.” She would understand.

“Okay,” Thancred agrees. “She is back with Krile—I left them to go find you.”

“Just you and her,” Ikael mumbles to Thancred’s chest. Not Krile.

“Of course,” Thancred says, understanding him somehow. It is nice.

It is only him and Thancred, now. He is pressing into one person, but that person is a friend, and that friend came back to find him. They are making very little noise.

Ikael is happy.

~*~

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> aiming to start developing ikael and thancred's relationship a lil :>


	7. whisper

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> short drabble prompt #1. with doodle!  
> (Prompt: things you said on the linkpearl at 4am - Ikael and Thancred)

 

  


 

“ _Thancred?_ ” The word is a whisper, drifting into his ear and chasing at the heels of sleep before he can succumb to it.

Preceded by, of course, an obnoxious dinging noise. Thancred is awake before Ikael even says his name.

“Ghmph?” Thancred mumbles, frowning and shifting into a somewhat seated position. His blanket falls softly to his waist. From outside the window, moonlight spills into his room, peering at his face through his hair. Thancred jerks his head down so it can stop.

“Are you awake?” Ikael asks, still whispering.

“Now I am,” Thancred says at a normal volume. Why hadn’t he taken out his linkpearl before he slept?

“… Oh,” says Ikael. He sounds guilty, and Thancred sighs. He pulls together some semblance of sympathy—the best he can at, hells, what time is it?—and asks, “What is it?”

“Just,” says Ikael, and then nothing else. An unsurmountable time passes in silence. Thancred blinks slowly into the darkness, feeling it creep into his consciousness.

He is just beginning to drift off to sleep again when Ikael finally speaks up once more.

“I can’t sleep,” he says. Thancred shakes his head firmly to keep himself awake. “The… the blanket,” Ikael continues. “It’s not…”

He says nothing more. Thancred takes a quick guess as to whether that is his entire statement, or if he is pausing again, and decides that it doesn’t matter.

“The blanket isn’t what?” he asks, voice still thick with sleep.

“… It’s scratchy,” Ikael says softly. “I woke up and I can’t… it’s bothering me.”

His blanket is scratchy. All right, then. Thancred is out of bed in… time, and he isn’t quite aware of what he is doing as he drags his own blanket across the floor to the door. Still, at least he is doing _something_.

“’m coming, hold on,” Thancred says. Ikael breathes his thanks, sounding relieved, and Thancred scrubs a palm across his eye before leaving his room.

~*~


	8. understanding

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> prompt #2, also with doodle!  
> (prompt: Things you said I wouldn’t understand - Y'shtola and Ikael

 

 

“Because it doesn’t _work_ that way,” Y’shtola finally explodes, anger and desperation and frustration all crashing out of her all at once, finding the cracks in her façade and blowing it open. “Life does not work that way, Ikael! Things will not simply fall into place because _you_ will it so! We can _lose_. People can die! I know you are the Warrior of Light, but that does not mean that the rest of us are invincible.”

Ikael looks at her calmly, watching her harsh breaths, waiting until her shoulders stop shaking, until her ears unflatten, until she closes her eyes and makes an effort to calm her breathing. He watches, and waits, and says nothing.

When she has relaxed some, when she can speak without losing her voice to a treacherous tremble, she _breathes_ , and says, “I am sorry. Such an outburst is unworthy of you. Or me.”

He steps forward, makes sure to wait until her sightless eyes drift to his. He says, “Can I hug you?”

She seems taken aback for an instant. But she nods, and replies, “You may.” Her tone is resigned.

He does so, envelops her in his arms until he can smell the softness of her hair, until his lips are by her ear. Then he says, “I know.”

She goes strangely still. He continues, “You might all die. _I_ might die. I might fail, we might all fail and unleash unto Eorzea another Calamity. But until then, what good does it do us to think that way?”

She reaches up to his shoulder, and her fingers flutter, but do not push or pull—after a second of indecision, she simply lays them down. Ikael keeps talking.

“There is no benefit to only allow ourselves to consider only the best possible outcome of things, no. But in thinking of failure, is there not hope? Hope that we can once again pull through, despite all odds? That we can face the worst enemy and be scared, be _terrified_ of the consequences, but still prevail?”

Y’shtola bends her head down, into the joint of his neck. He feels her eyelashes close. She seems to be thinking.

She does not answer him, but… she does not need to.

“I seem to have misjudged you,” she says at last. She sounds weary, but almost… relieved, in an abstract way. “I am… so used to it. Being the one who has to face the grim reality of our decisions at every turn, ever cost. But I am not, am I? You are there at the front lines, and I was a fool to think you could not see what was before your very eyes. I am sorry.”

He smiles, and nudges her hair with his nose. “’Tis not your fault,” he says, “You have much to worry about. But chin up, yeah? All is never lost, not until the last of our people are ashes in the wind.”

She chuckles, a dry sound. “You have an interesting outlook on things, that is for sure,” she says. “I.. am sorry that so few can see it. But that is the way you like it, is it not?”

He shrugs, and lets her go. “I’m mostly just here to cook for you,” he says.

She laughs. After a moment of consideration, he joins in.

~*~


	9. (dis)honesty

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> companion piece to "understanding" (previous chapter)

Ikael watches Y’shtola as she crushes dust into a salve, wondering briefly whether she can tell when it is done by its texture or by its smell. Her tail is swaying freely and slowly; a relaxed pose, and her ears twitch occasionally at a passing noise, but she does not seem bothered.

Good.

He would feel bad, in quiet, dishonest way, but he does not. Nor does he feel bitter; she had needed him to tell her what he had, and he would help her, in any way he can. He is genuinely glad that he is able to give her peace.

Nevertheless, there is a soft lie that was spoken into the wisps of her hair, a beat of insincerity in his heart when he thinks on his own words pulled from her fingertips on his shoulder. He is their front line, yes, and he holds hope despite that, yes, but... he is not Alphinaud.

Still, he is happy to tell her what she needs to hear.

He turns away with a small smile. Perhaps one day, he thinks. Perhaps one day they will all be ground into the dust and see the world as he sees it on his darkest nights. He fervently hopes that that day will never come, but…

The Warrior of Light has no place in his life for blind idealism.

~*~


	10. bullshit

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> inspired by my dog

_“Meow,”_ said the cat.

Thancred glanced down in some surprise. He hadn’t noticed it at his feet. It was a small thing, black with a brown-tipped tail, and it was looking straight up at him.

“Why hello there,” Thancred said. The cat’s ears perked up.

 _“MRrrowr,”_ it said enthusiastically, and started rubbing against his calf.

Thancred stared at it, nonplussed, and hesitantly bent down. When he was kneeling next to the cat, it put its paws on his thigh and headbutted him gently.

Thancred slowly reached out to pet it—cats were far more Ikael’s area than his—and it ducked its head under his hand.

“Oh, you’re a sweet thing, are you?” Thancred murmured, scratching behind soft ears. It started purring.

“Too bad I can’t take you home with me,” Thancred said. The cat might have an owner—its fur was fairly smooth and shiny, and it looked strong and well-fed—but even if it didn’t, Thancred's nutkin would… not approve.

It might have been his words, or it might have been some sort of feline whim, because as soon as he had finished that sentence, the cat leapt onto his leg and started to climb up his arm.

“Hey,” said Thancred. The cat wound itself around his neck. “Hey now, no. No.”

“Mgrrr,” grumbled the cat.

“I can’t actually take you home with me,” Thancred said, feeling somewhat ridiculous. He was talking to a _cat_. It couldn’t understand him.

The cat rubbed its head against his cheek. Thancred's resistance slowly melted.

“I really cannot take you,” he mumbled, scratching its chin. It purred at him.

“I don’t know what to feed you, or how to take care of you,” Thancred continued, still completely lost, “Or… even if you’re male or female, actually…”

He reached up to carefully lift the cat from around his shoulders to check, but claws sank into his skin as soon as he got close, and the cat hissed.

“Alright, alright,” Thancred muttered. The cat mewled at him, and flicked its tail into Thancred's nose.

“What’s your name, hm?” Thancred said, looking down at its face. Feline green eyes blinked slowly at him. For some reason, “Ikael” popped into his head. The cat was strangely affectionate and…. No. He couldn’t name his cat—

Not _his_ cat. _A_ cat. Right.

“How do you like… ‘Leaki?’” Thancred asked anyway.

The cat stared at him. Just as Thancred was certain it was about to call him an idiot, someone called out, “Thancred!”

The cat leaped down from his neck, momentarily sinking its claws into him—Thancred might have let out a startled yelp at this—and circled around him, meowing loudly. Thancred stared at it. Was this normal behaviour? He’d have to ask Ikael.

“Stay right there,” Alisaie ordered, running up. “Thancred—hold him.”

 _Him_ , then. Thancred obeyed, reaching down and picking the cat up. Wait. Why was Alisaie detaining a _cat_?

“Why are you—” Thancred began.

“Did you find him?” cried Alphinaud’s voice, and then the boy himself was rushing towards them, cheeks pink with exertion. Thancred stared.

“Oh, good,” Alphinaud said once he had reached them. He was panting, leaning on his knees. “Ah, Thancred, would you mind holding him still while I cast the spell?”

Thancred frowned, pulling the cat close to his chest. It rubbed its head against him. “Why do you want to cast a spell on him?” Thancred asked, still utterly confused. “What did he do?”

“He turned into a _cat_ ,” Alisaie said promptly, and crossed her arms.

Thancred gaped. What—

“What,” he said to the cat. It stared at him with green eyes that were suddenly very, _very_ familiar.

“What in… the _hells_?” Thancred said.

“Meow,” said the cat.

“Right there. Now brace yourselves!” Alphinaud said out of the blue, and then suddenly Thancred felt a burst of aether blast him nearly out of his body.

When his vision cleared and the ringing in his ears stopped, Thancred was left staring dazedly at someone who was very much not a cat. Well, at least not _entirely_.

Ikael grinned at him. “Thancred!” he said happily.

Thancred said, “What the f—”

“Put some _clothes_ on, please,” Alisaie begged, shielding her eyes. “I do not want to be even further scarred for life than I already am.”

Without breaking his stare, Thancred threw his coat over Ikael. It mostly covered him.

“Thank you for your help, Thancred,” said Alphinaud, and bowed. Thancred kept looking at Ikael.

“‘Leaki?’ Really?” said Ikael.

“You owe me,” Thancred told him, “An entire round of drinks. And an explanation.”

“Done,” said Ikael, grinning. His tail swung lazily from side to side, and Thancred's coat started to fall.

“Oh gods,” Alisaie muttered. “You know what? I think I’ll join you.”

~*~

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> it's up to you whether this is canon or not  
> my hands are clean


	11. take a break

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> you gotta, sometimes.

_And of course, since the decline in population of its natural predator, the production of rolanberries in the northernmost corners of the Shroud has increased dramatically. It is estimated that around 12 000 crops of rolanberries are grown per year, although around a quarter of the yield is usually eaten by…_

Thancred knuckles at his eyes tiredly. The words had started to blur together on the page a good bell ago, and the urge to simply faceplant into the textbook and fall asleep like that had followed not long after. But he needs to… study this, for…

For…?

For Tataru—right. She had wanted Thancred to send her…

“Thancred, there you are,” says a friendly, comfortable voice. “Oh, you poor thing—you look ready to pass out! I’ve been sent to you because apparently you are ‘overworking yourself again, like an idiot,’ although she used a… less nice word.”

Thancred squints at him and grunts. Ikael is holding a small platter, upon which rests a plate of cookies and what looks like two steaming mugs of… something.

He doesn’t seem to sense Thancred's general grouchy mood, and slides quickly into his personal space, setting the platter down on the table.

“Wow,” he says, peering at Thancred's book, “That looks extraordinarily boring and dull! Good thing I’m going to force you to leave it alone.”

“Ikael,” Thancred groans, “I need to look at this. For… for Tataru, I think.”

“Mmhm!” Ikael says, and flips the textbook shut before Thancred even knows what is going on. “It can wait. She’ll understand.”

“Eh… hey!” Thancred reacts a bit belatedly, frowning and swatting Ikael’s hand away. “She… needs the information tonight! For… something. I don’t know… the time differences are…” He begins to thumb through the pages of the book semi-urgently, looking for where he had left off. She needs it for… a recipe, or… something about someone named Hancock…

Ikael reaches down and pulls the book from Thancred's grip with embarrassing ease.

“You can do this tomorrow,” he says, pushing it to the far end of the table. Thancred stares morosely. “Right now, you are going to sit and eat cookies and drink hot cocoa with me.”

“Hot... cocoa,” Thancred repeats blankly.

“Hot cocoa,” Ikael agrees, shifting closer to Thancred and handing him a mug, which he takes without thinking.

“A dear friend of mine used to make it when I was stressing out,” Ikael says, leaning into him. The words are quiet but fond, shared just between the two of them. “It was… a nice gesture. I made him bake with me one time, and then cookies got added too. So here.”

Thancred drops his head onto Ikael’s shoulder, and takes a sip of the cocoa. It is sweet, and sends warmth through him. He reaches for a cookie—they are soft and crumbly, and not too sugary, and… yes, of course they taste good. Ikael _did_ make them, after all.

“Alright,” he mumbles, feeling his eyes close. He can afford to take… a _small_ break, if Ikael insists. “I’ll keep you company.”

“ _You’re_ the one keeping _me_ company, yes of course.” Ikael sounds amused, but Thancred cannot be bothered to think of why. Ikael is warm and friendly and smells like sweet things, and Thancred is… so tired.

He manages to finish his drink, mostly, and then he noses into Ikael’s sleeve (the fact that he’s wearing a sleeved shirt would otherwise be alarming, but Thancred is in no condition to care), and Ikael pulls his head down, and then Thancred is being petted, and held, and treated a bit like a cat, which is weird, but nice.

“You can nap,” Ikael says softly, taking Thancred's mug from his fingers. “I will wake you when you need to go to bed, alright?”

Thancred is already drifting off. He feels a kiss being pressed to his head, and that is the last thing he is aware of before he falls asleep.

~*~


	12. ribbon

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> prompt: dare you to take the ribbon off Y'shtola's outfit and wear it for a day without getting caught.  
> (also including a dodle)

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> ([ "The back of the story"](https://archiveofourown.org/works/13565067) happens around this time)

“A-and, you know, I-I was just feeling,” a sniff, “a bit… um, well.” Ikael glanced down, toeing at the ground. “So I thought… i-if you don’t mind, of course. I don’t want to intrude—”

“Ikael.” Y’shtola’s face softened. He felt a misty surge of hope—she looked sympathetic. Maybe she’d say yes?

“You do not have to trouble yourself so,” Y’shtola continued, and held out her arms. Ikael did an inner fist-pump. _Yes._ “If you are feeling so, I will not refuse you something as simple as a hug.”

Ikael sniffed again. Had he done that too recently? No matter. He stepped forward, and Y’shtola embraced him…

There. Now what had Thancred said? Use two fingers, and don’t shift the weight of your hand…

He could feel the silk of the ribbon. He tugged, slowly, _carefully_ —

_There! Success._

He pulled away from Y’shtola, using the motion of swiping at his eyes to quickly slide it into his sleeve. He held his breath, prayed she wouldn’t notice…

Y’shtola pressed her hand against his arm, and he had a small heart attack, staring at her with wide eyes that he didn’t have to try too hard to fake. _Oh no_. She said,

“Do not be hesitant to come to me if you need something, my friend.”

And that was _it_ , Ikael was _safe—_

He escaped unscathed, inwardly cackling in glee.

~*~

Ikael was wearing her ribbon.

She hadn’t notice him take it from her—impressive, and no doubt Thancred’s fault—but she could most definitely sense her own aether drifting from his person. He had wrapped it around his armband—apparently he still hadn’t learned how to accessorize properly—and seemed to think that because she couldn’t _see_ it, she didn’t know it was there.

Ah, it was a miracle he managed to kill any primals, really.

Still, she let him have his little victory. Unbeknownst to Ikael, she was not entirely untrained in the ways of picking pockets—or clothing—either. Thancred had _some_ uses.

She smiled to herself. Her time would come.

~*~

 


	13. minor inconveniences

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> I mean, it would be a shame not to take advantage of a cat-race. come on.

It was because of the loud _thud_ that Thancred finally managed to find who he was looking for, although the long string of expletives following it certainly helped. He hurried to the noise, rounding the corner, and came across a rather frustrated Ikael.

Frustrated, it seemed, because he could not… reach a book?

Thancred glanced at the thick tome fallen on the ground, glanced at Ikael’s tiptoes and outstretched fingertips, glanced higher to what he was trying to reach and how far away it was, and, despite his best effort, began to laugh.

Ikael _immediately_ turned around to glare at him, sinking back on his heels. Thancred tried to hide his chuckles behind his hand, but took one look at Ikael’s face and failed utterly.

“Yeah, yeah, yack it up,” Ikael muttered, narrowing his eyes at him. His tail swished rapidly from side to side in irritation. Thancred paid little heed to the warning, and kept laughing.

Ikael huffed, then went back to trying to get his book, apparently adamant to ignore Thancred completely. He gave a little… hop. Thancred laughed harder.

“Ah…” he murmured a good minute or so later, wiping at his eyes, “Thank you for that. Actually, my furred feline friend, I have come in search of you! Y’shtola refuses to help me.”

“Cat problems, I’m assuming from that terrible alliteration?” Ikael muttered. “Grab another miqo’te by their tail, why don’t you? I’m busy.”

He jumped up and made a small swipe to knock the book down. He missed by about an ilm.

Thancred stepped forward and tugged cheekily at Ikael’s tail. It was a very, _very_ quick, light gesture. Nevertheless, Ikael spun around, expression semi-feral.

“You like to play with fire, don’t you, rogue?” he hissed. “Just because you’re _three_ ilms taller than me, you think you’re _so_ much better than—”

Thancred reached up and plucked the book off the shelf with minimum difficulty. He held it out to Ikael with an amused smile.

Ikael squinted at him, then snatched the book.

“I’ll remember the tail-pulling,” he warned in a stage-whisper.

“I’m sure,” Thancred said. He reached forward to ruffle Ikael’s hair, making sure to curl his fingers around his ear in a brief scratch.

It seemed to do the trick, because Ikael melted out of whatever belligerent, height-challenged mood he had been sulking in. He grumbled a little, but relaxed his shoulders, uncurling his tail.

“What do you need help with?” he muttered to Thancred's wrist.

Thancred beamed at him. “Your coeurl is attempting to hunt down and eat my nutkin again,” he said brightly.

Ikael perked up. “Ellie’s here?” he asked.

“Please tell her to stop,” Thancred said.

“Natural selection,” Ikael returned, tapping his nose. Thancred pouted.

“Alright, _fine,_ ” Ikael sighed overdramatically, and Thancred scratched him again as a thank you.

“You can’t keep doing that every time you want something,” Ikael mumbled as Thancred started to tug him to where ‘Ellie’ was terrifying his poor nutkin well into its grave. “It won’t work.”

Ikael’s tail was brushing against Thancred's leg. Thancred could _swear_ it was looking for one of its own kind.

“Of course,” he murmured to Ikael, bumping their shoulders (He had to lean down a little to do so. Ikael didn’t seem to notice). “And you _don’t_ like napping at the most random times of day and you don’t curl into an _adorable_ little ball when you do so.”

“I’m always adorable,” Ikael said, chin up.

Thancred grinned and reached down to gently stroke his tail. “Yes,” he said as Ikael trilled a little, “You are.”

~*~


	14. selfishness

_Please…_

“Yeah?”

 _Oh, good_.

“Ikael? It’s Thancred. Are you… busy?” He did not like how soft and insecure his voice sounded; not because he was speaking to Ikael—he would never mock him—but because it was far, far too honest, leaving him feeling lost and not a bit hollow. Still, hopefully Ikael wouldn’t… he wouldn't mind. Thancred swallowed, waiting patiently for a response.

“Oh! No, we’re not busy. What’s wrong?” Ikael replied. Thancred felt a fleeting pulse of comfort from the gentleness of his voice.

“I just… ‘we?’”

“Y’shtola is with me,” said Ikael. Thancred relaxed. “We’re in the sitting room, if you wish to join us. Or I could come to you if you need to speak in private?”

“No, that be necessary. I… I’ll go to you. Thank you, Ikael.”

“Okay, hurry up now, alright? Come get your hug—you’re worrying me.”

Thancred breathed a laugh, glancing down, and assured Ikael he’d be on his way. Two minutes later he was hesitantly hovering near the sitting room.

“Thancred is here,” he heard Y’shtola mutter quietly as he approached. He peeked in, and spied her… lying on a couch?

“Come in,” said the couch. “You live here too.”

Ah… that was Ikael, hidden from view until Thancred stepped inside. He was sitting with Y’shtola’s legs in his lap, holding what appeared to be a small, white comb.

He was grooming her tail, Thancred realized, suddenly feeling as if he was intruding upon an oddly intimate moment between close friends. He shouldn’t be here—he wasn’t…

“Sit down,” Y’shtola ordered, staring at him with a distinctly unimpressed expression. She didn’t add, _Paint a picture, it’ll last longer_ , but he could feel the words in the air nevertheless.

Thancred obeyed, sitting quickly and tucking his hands underneath his legs. He was content to just stay there for the moment, watching as Ikael ran the comb through Y’shtola’s fur.

“You say you got mud in it?” Ikael said in an undertone, barely loud enough for Thancred to hear, and Y’shtola shrugged.

“I mostly washed it out, but it will mat, I know. ’Tis a pain.”

Ikael made a sympathetic noise. “Mamae has longer fur than I do,” he said, pulling the comb in a careful but firm motion, “But I helped her with her tail often enough. I am glad I can help you.”

“I appreciate it. And Ikael—your fur is shorter. Can it even knot?”

“No, but it gets nasty if I don’t wash it. Dirt and dried mud and even blood, sometimes. And you know it _itches_.”

“Mm. Do you use your hair oils on your tail? Your hair is always so soft—I’d imagine the chemicals are gentle enough.”

“Actually, I do. I dilute it a bit, though. And my hair is like that even when I do not wash it, strangely enough—I do not know how.”

“Thancred,” said Y’shtola, and Thancred gave a little start. He had been content to simply listen to them talk to themselves about things he did not need to relate to. He blinked at Y'shtola rapidly.

“You have not said a single word since you came in,” she said. “And there is room enough on this couch for one more.”

Her tone was… light, almost friendly. Still… Thancred was not…

He shot her a quick smile. “I, ah, would not want to disturb you, my lady. Please, pay me no heed.”

This was their space; he felt like a stranger. Even so, it was gracious of them to allow him to linger.

“No, she’s right." Ikael frowned at him. “Come," he added, beckoning with the comb.

“I…” Thancred stood. “I should… go, really. I do not wish to—”

“Thancred.” That was Y'shtola, who had begun to frown as well. Thancred winced. “Sit. Here,” and she sat up and shifted away from Ikael before patting the space in between them.

Thancred shuffled his feet guiltily. He was making this into a scene—really, there was no need—

“Oh, come on.” Thancred watched with slightly wide eyes as Ikael rose and walked towards him.

Ikael pulled at his wrist, and Thancred let himself be tugged to the couch and gently pushed down onto the cushions. He felt… odd, and maneuverable, like he was a puppet waiting for its strings to be jerked. It was a strange vulnerability, but he trusted his friends, _these two_ , with him. Still…

“I really do not…” Thancred began, and then trailed off, because Ikael was a warm presence at his side and even Y'shtola was looking at him with something of a smile, her hand resting on his arm.

Ikael nosed at his shoulder and hummed, and Y'shtola leaned against him a little, and Thancred found himself giving in to the comfort surrounding him, because it was _nice_ , they were _nice_ , so kind, and…

He closed his eyes. Perhaps… he could afford to be selfish. Once in while.

~*~

 


	15. rose water

Thancred raps on the door to Ikael’s temporary quarters, waiting for the answering “ _Come in!”_ before entering, because he can hear the sound of running water faintly through the walls and has no wish to barge in to the sight of Ikael bare-arsed naked.

Thancred enters, cradling his small tray close to his chest so as not to spill the drinks it is carrying. The bedroom is empty, the sheets messy and haphazardly tossed off the bed, but the door to the ensuite bathing area is ajar, and any noticeable noise of activity is coming from beyond it.

“Ikael?” Thancred calls, poking his head into the bathing area and wrinkling his nose at the smell of lavender steaming lazily in the air. He looks around. What have these Ala Mhigans _given_ Ikael? Thancred barely gets a bed, and Ikael receives an entire suite and a personal heated bathing room complete with scented oils and adjustable temperatures? Not fair.

Well. A _little_ fair.

Ikael himself is fiddling with the knobs of a small separate basin, squinting and occasionally prodding at a bright red crystal. He is wearing but a towel wrapped around his waist, the tip of his tail poking out from the bottom, swaying gently. Thancred wonders briefly and ridiculously if miqo’te cut holes in their towels to allow room for their extra appendage, then shakes his head.

“Thancred!” says Ikael, and turns around with a warm smile. He eyes Thancred's tray and cocks his head curiously. “What brings you here?”

“This place is quite extravagant,” Thancred returns, eyeing the miniature washbasin Ikael has been poking at. “Has the Resistance decided that its efforts are best suited to equipping heroes with… clean water and nice-smelling soaps?”

Ikael laughs, a bit abashedly, and scratches at his ear. “Er… that is our fault, actually,” he says. “Us adventurers, that is. There are a few that have come from Kugane, curious about Eorzea, and… well. One of them has a… _lot_ of money and was quite horrified about our lack of hot springs or public bathing areas, and she offered to get her people to build one… and Lyse _loved_ those in Kugane… Ahem. Long story short, this is a prototype. There is another entrance over there,” he points, “For anyone else to come in. Changing rooms are also near that area if you wish to join me, Thancred—you look like you could use a bath.”

Thancred raises an eyebrow. “I think you should cut holes in your towels,” he says, “So your tail can fit through. It looks odd.”

Ikael blinks at him in confusion, mouth slightly open.

Thancred huffs. “No one asked for _your_ opinion either,” he states.

Ikael gapes at him for a full second before laughing, then reaches for one of the mugs on Thancred's tray. He sniffs at it.

“Tea?” he asks, blowing on it gently before taking a careful sip. “That is sweet of you—no pun intended. Thank you.”

Thancred plucks the remaining mug off the tray and lays it down on a little jut in the wall. He joins Ikael, who has moved to sit on the edge of the small pool inlaid in the floor of the room, waving his feet in the water. Thancred toes off his boots and socks before following suit.

“You could use the break,” he replies, side-eying a fresh, angry red scar roping its way around Ikael’s midsection from his shoulder. “And gods know no one else takes care of you, let alone yourself.”

Ikael makes a cooing noise and smiles at him softly, sipping at his tea. His eyes are twinkling with a warmth Thancred finds he can easily return.

“Valentione’s day is coming up,” Ikael brings up, seemingly out of nowhere.

Thancred mentally checks the date. “It is,” he affirms, shooting Ikael an amused look. “Thinking of asking someone to go out romantically killing monsters and doing other people’s chores with you?”

Ikael laughs. “Not as such,” he says, and takes a small sip of his tea. “I’ve never quite celebrated it, to be honest. I haven’t been in a long enough relationship, although I had a friend back in the tribe… well. We agreed to call it ‘best friends’ day,’ so that is what I have known it as. Thinking back, actually, that friend was always a bit… hm. Over… enthusiastic about it.” He glances down.

Thancred gives an overdramatic gasp, easily piecing _that_ together. “And _I_ am supposed to be the heartbreaker here. I cannot _believe_ you, Ikael.”

“ _Hey_. It’s not my fault! I thought it was normal for best friends to… run off together and maybe…. Ah. He called it ‘friend kissing.’ I did not know… Don’t give me that look. He wasn’t _bad_ -looking. I just wasn’t… interested. Uh. It was when he wanted to do… _more_ that I realized that perhaps I had been… leading him on a bit.”

He winces. Thancred grins. Ikael takes a deep breath, then lets it out in a defeated sigh.

“I felt bad for him and we sort of started… courting? Gods, I don’t know. _Ugh_ , I hate _thinking_ about it—poor Kava.”

The last part is muttered seemingly to himself. Thancred is _delighted_.

“ _Anyways_ ,” Ikael says loudly as Thancred opens his mouth, “’Tis ‘best friends’ day’ now. And unless you harbour some secret desire to lay with me and whisper all your unconfessed love romantically into my ear, we shall celebrate it the normal way.”

“I would make a _sonnet_ ,” Thancred grins, wiggling his toes in the water. “‘ _Oh, sweet love of mine/ With your eyes like resplendent emeralds shine—’”_

Ikael kicks him as best he can through water, and Thancred laughs.

“I am making cupcakes,” Ikael declares. He sounds suddenly thoughtful. “… Yes. And… hm. Chocolate, maybe? No. But strawberry is too strong a taste for the _pink_ icing…”

“I am honoured that you consider me your best friend,” Thancred announces grandly before Ikael can get lost planning out an entire banquet. “I, personally, think that you are terribly uncouth and not a bit dense, so you are number four on the list. You can work your way up.”

“Don’t make me _cry_ ,” Ikael says, rolling his eyes. “I’ll show you ‘uncouth,’” he adds in an undertone, squinting at his mug.

Thancred smiles and leans into him, and Ikael splashes him. What follows is a splash-fight that is terribly childish and silly, and that they will never, ever admit having to _anyone_ if pressed. For the moment, though, they can enjoy themselves.

Love is in the air, after all.

~*~

(BONUS:

)

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> i got "best friends' day" from my friend, who has a boyfriend and still hates valentine's day. hah.


	16. performance

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> send me tumblr prompts and i'll.... take them seriously, of COURSE.

“ _Please_ , you cannot die… _now_ ,” Ikael wails, throwing his arms out wildly and smacking Thancred in the face. “Oh _noooo_ , my… _love._ ”

“I can’t die because that’s not in this _scene_ , idiot,” Thancred hisses in an undertone. “You’re an entire act ahead!”

Ikael opens an eye to peer at him. “… _Oh_ ,” he whispers.

In front of the stage, the very pretty, very lovely maidens Thancred has invited to watch their performance giggle louder. Thancred lets his head drop down in defeat. It hits the stage with a soft _thud_.

“Uh,” says Ikael. He starts poking Thancred's chest repeatedly with his forefinger. “ _What, ho_ , Theoniclus! What injury has befallen you? Be it… _fate_ that shall see us part unto the morning?”

He is just saying random shite now. Thancred groans. “Stop… prodding me,” he mutters, batting Ikael’s hand away.

He sees Ikael squint, and just… _knows_ he is trying to remember when “Theoniclus” says that line. The women have clearly started laughing now. Thancred closes his eyes. He will accept his fate.

He hears Ikael stammer, and readies himself… “My _love_!” Ikael cries in a high-pitched voice, apparently deciding that his talent lies in improvisation, “Oh… how I… _love_ thee. You. Ahem.”

“Dear gods,” Thancred mutters. “Please, someone actually kill me.”

“ _Noo_ , my love, do not… _say that_!” Ikael exclaims. Thancred's eyes shoot open as he feels himself being hefted up. Ikael cradles him against his chest, his wig falling onto Thancred's face. Thancred spits out a lock of false hair.

“If… _only_ … true love’s _kiss_ could mend this tale!” Ikael cries in a shrill falsetto, beginning to lean down. Thancred's eyes widen, and he turns his head at the last instant as Ikael smacks wet, painted lips to his cheek.

“Hey, that wasn’t true love’s kiss,” Ikael murmurs, and… wait. Thancred glances back up at him, and… the damned fiend is _smirking_.

“Pucker up, lover boy,” Ikael says, and the laughter gets _louder_ —the bastard is doing this on _purpose_ —

Thancred twists his head away once more, and this time the kiss lands on his chin. Someone in the audience cackles.

“My _love_!” Ikael shrieks, “Why do you… reject me _sooo?_ ”

The most terrible part of this is the fact that his acting isn’t ingenuine. Thancred (unfortunately) remembers the rehearsals.

“Aha,” he says, straining to escape Ikael’s grip—godsdamn, he’s strong—“I… have had an epiphany. I am not interested in women, and I’ve only been using you to get to your brother, but we can still be friends, Henrietta—”

Ikael whips off his wig dramatically, flinging it to the far corner of the stadium, and the audience cheers. “I am no woman!” he declares grandly. Someone throws rose petals. “It is I… _Henry_!”

“Get some, Henry!” someone hoots—is that Lyse?

“Not Henrietta!” Ikael adds unnecessarily. “Henry! Her brother! Whom you are _actually_ in love with!”

Well. It is a better ending than the original, at any rate.

“Oh, _Henry_!” Thancred gasps, clutching at his chest. He might as well give in—he is not winning this. “How long have I marveled at you from afar, ever since that one time I caught you bathing naked in the moonlight—”

“Oh, was that you? I thought that was the milkmaid’s son, but you’re far… hunkier. Yum.”

“—You set my loins afire—”

“Don’t hurt yourself.”

“—and I declare myself eternally devoted to worshipping your beauty! Oh, could I but seal this passion with the union of our bodies—”

“Uh, not on stage—”

“—As such, a kiss will have to do. For it was only in the false knowledge that you were your sister that I essayed to delay our bonding.”

Thancred winds his hands around Ikael's neck and begins to pull him down.

“Wait,” says Ikael, eyes widening. “I, uh, don’t actually want to—”

Too late. The audience goes _wild_ , and someone—no, that’s definitely Lyse—wolf-whistles. Ikael lets out a muffled squeak. Thancred moans at him over-dramatically in response.

He breaks the kiss with a lovesick sigh. The sticky taste of lip-paint on his mouth is worth the look on Ikael’s face.

“ _Ew_ ,” Ikael whimpers, wiping desperately at his mouth with his sleeve.

“And they lived happily ever after!” Thancred shouts to the audience, taking Ikael’s hand and giving a bow the best he can while sprawled on the ground. Their response is _deafening._

Eventually, Ikael laughs, and pulls him up to bow properly, which they do with matching grins, again and again and… someone throws a bouquet of roses… again. At one point, Ikael rips open his bodice and throws his fake breasts into the audience, and that is when things begin to get a little… out of control. But it is all in good fun.

_And they lived happily ever after._

_The end._

 

_~*~_

 

 

 


	17. well this is awkward

“Who knew _you’d_ be here?” The words are short, brusque, and malcontent.

Ikael spins around, surprised, and stutters on air when he sees who is addressing him.

“Maurice!” he says. “I, uh… well. Probably everyone, really.” He scratches at his ear. “I kind of… come here often.”

As soon as the words leave his mouth, he winces. That… really isn’t the most ideal thing to say, considering…

Maurice makes a disgusted noise. “Typical wanton, oversexed _chat_. When I was invited, I was given no indication that this event would be hosting _tramps_.”

Ikael stretches his mouth into a semblance of a smile and laughs a little. Maurice is a handsome elezen man, with high cheekbones, dark eyes, and a very strict demeanor that Ikael had cheerfully ignored when they had first met.

 _You look like you could use a break_ , he had flirted. _Begone, harlot,_ Maurice had replied. Needless to say, it had gone downhill from there.

“I’m, ah, sorry to disappoint,” Ikael says anyways, because he does not wish to be rude. “I’ll probably stay over by the food, so if you want to avoid me—”

“Stuffing yourself?” Maurice sniffs, and Ikael’s tail curls around his leg at his tone. “Careful you do not ruin your figure, _petit chat_ , or you shall find no libidinous friends this evening.”

Ikael does not know what that word means, but he is somewhat offended regardless. “I hardly think _figure_ plays a part in desirability,” he says hotly, crossing his arms and squinting at Maurice. “And if anyone _were_ so picky, they would not be worth my time anyhow.”

He is completely arguing the wrong point, but _still_. It has to be said, right?

Maurice raises an eyebrow. “I _hardly_ think you can afford to be selective,” he intones, giving Ikael a scathing once-over. Ikael is about to reply when he feels—smells, hears, senses—a familiar presence by his side.

“What is it with people insisting you are too ugly to sleep with?” Thancred wonders out loud, sidling up to them. Maurice looks down his nose at him, lip curled. “If you ask me, you are rather attractive. Not as much as myself, of course, but good enough.”

Ikael rolls his eyes playfully, feeling his good mood return with Thancred's appearance. “I am prettier than you,” he says, turning to him with a smile.

“Hm.” Thancred makes as if he is thinking. “… No, you’re not.”

“Oh? And who was it that received a dinner invite to handsome Ser Aymeric’s house? Not the _legendary_ mood-killer of the Scions of the Seventh Dawn, that is for sure.”

“‘Mood-killer?’ Your insults are becoming feebler by the day.”

“It ruins the mood if you keep pausing to stare at your own reflection in the nearest shiny surface.”

They are interrupted by Maurice, who emits an irritated huff before stalking off. Ikael watches the stiffness of his back as it gets farther away.

Thancred slaps him lightly on the arm. “Do not look after what you should not have,” he admonishes. “You deserve better than him, anyhow. Relax a little tonight, alright?”

Ikael laughs, eyeing Thancred in amusement. “I was not looking,” he promises. “And are you my keeper now? ‘You deserve better than him, Ikael. Find yourself a man who treats you right, Ikael, or I will go to his house and stab him to death in his sleep.’”

Thancred huffs, crossing his arms. “You cannot blame me for being a little… protective,” he mutters. “You have a tendency to throw yourself at any interaction so long as it is there. I am just making sure,” he lifts his chin, “that it is _positive_ interaction.”

“As long as you keep your spying on my ‘positive interactions’ limited to _public_ places, I am fine with it,” Ikael says cheerfully. In truth, he is… touched, if a bit confused. Thancred can be a _dear_ , although Ikael does not think he is truly _that_ self-destructive. Still, Ikael will bake him sweet tarts later as thanks.

He gives Thancred a little peck on the cheek as insurance anyways, ignoring the bewildered look it gets him. Yes, sweet tarts.

With lemon. He likes those.

~*~


	18. that's nice of you

“So…” Thancred says when Ikael totters over to them with nervous, fidgety hands, “How did everything go?”

Ikael pulls at a loose string on his hand-wrap. His tail is wound tightly around his thigh and his ears are dipped at a self-conscious angle. “…Ah,” he replies, looking at the ground, “I… do not think they liked me.”

Thancred makes a sympathetic noise, and Y'shtola, next to him, frowns. “That is ridiculous,” she asserts, placing her hands on her hips. “Everyone likes you. I do not detect anything unlikeable _about_ you. This is why Free Companies should not be trusted to handle any important decisions.”

Ikael shoots her a tentative grin. “Aheh,” he mumbles. “A-anyways… I, uh, went to make dinner and I… kept going? There’s… enough for a few people, if you two want to eat with me later…”

“Of course,” Thancred agrees readily, because he is _starving_ , and he does not want to cook his own food. “In fact, why wait until later? It is late enough to eat now.”

“I…” Ikael peers down at his boots. “I think I need to… meditate for a bit. You two can start without me—the food is in the kitchen under my nametag.”

And so saying, he walks away to his room, squeezing his own arm in a facsimile of a hug.

Y'shtola sighs softly. “I hope he recovers from whatever setback they have laid on him,” she says. Her ear flicks with a light crease of her brow.

“He will meditate, feel calmer, and get his hugs when he comes back to us,” Thancred declares easily. He knows how this goes. “So… can we go eat?”

Y'shtola scowls at him. “Thancred!”

“I am hungry!”

“We will wait for him,” Y'shtola orders, giving him a look that brokers no room for argument, “And he shall feel better when he finds out that he gets to eat with friends. Honestly, Thancred…”

Thancred holds up his hands. “Of course, of course. I was merely testing the integrity of your good intentions.”

“Hmph.”

Ikael’s face does, in fact, break into a soft, surprised smile when he sees that they have waited for him. It is worth the patient growling of Thancred's stomach.

~*~


	19. reassurance

“I’m _sorry_.”

The words are torn, raw, out of a choked throat, accompanied by a shaky gasp of breath and wet eyes. Ikael wipes his cheek with the back of his hand, gaze heavy and focused on a button on Thancred's shirt.

“I know you are sorry, Ikael,” Thancred says quietly. He feels… stretched. He is caught between self-righteousness—a fading echo of indignance, and an instinct to comfort Ikael that has become almost second nature to him by now. Yet… he cannot. There are some things that should not be solved with easy forgiveness and an embrace.

“It does not…” In a rare moment of hesitance, Thancred searches for the right words. “… resolve the issue,” he decides, because that is light enough, yet serious. “The issue being, of course, that there are times when I cannot… be there for you. Times when I am speaking with someone else, who is also important, and I cannot push them aside for _your_ needs.”

“I-I-I know! I… wasn’t…” Ikael stops, and presses his hand to his eyes, because… yes, he was.

“You need to _ask_ ,” Thancred says gently, because Ikael is still learning, Hydaelyn bless him, and Thancred knows he would try his best with situations like these if he only _knew_ what to do. “Ask ahead of time, and we can figure something out, alright?”

Ikael nods miserably, dropping his hand and looking at Thancred's boots. His shoulders are slumped, his ears folded down, and he looks like he wishes for nothing more than to stop existing. And so Thancred says, in what he hopes is a reassuring tone, “Do not worry; we are still friends, Ikael.”

Ikael's face _crumples_. A sob rises from his chest, and he buries his head in his hands. He starts to back away. Thancred is somewhat alarmed—what had he said?

“Ikael?” he asks, stepping forward and reaching out almost unconsciously. Ikael stumbles away, backing into the door and grasping blindly for the handle. Thancred moves to him quickly, before he can run.

“Hey, hey!” he says. “Where are you going?”

Ikael looks at him with wretched eyes. “Back,” he croaks around a sob. “B-b-back to…” another sob, “my room. I-I’ll… leave you.”

“Hey, wait—” Thancred starts, but Ikael shakes his head vigorously, cuts him off with, “No! No, leave me al—I don’t—can’t—’m _sorry_ —” He finds the door handle and _pulls_ , and then he is scrambling out of the room, leaving Thancred bewilderedly annoyed and not a bit lost.

Ikael is fast, but so is Thancred, and _he_ is not blubbering his way through the halls. Thancred runs after Ikael, catches up to him and spins him around by his shoulders, and Ikael is _crying_ , harder than he has in _months_ —to Thancred's knowledge.

“I’m sorry, I’m sorry, I’m _sorry_ ,” Ikael wails brokenly, pawing at him. “L-leave me… ’m _sorry_ , leave m-me _alone_ …”

“Alright, come back—come back; here—” Thancred tries to pull him back to his quarters, but Ikael tugs away from him, shaking his head incessantly. “Ikael, we can—talk about this,” Thancred grits out, frustrated. “There is no need for—”

Ikael looks at him, meets his gaze this time, and Thancred stops. Ikael’s eyes are wild, and desperate, and _heartbroken_ , and Thancred… stops. Stops pulling, stops talking. He takes a moment to just… think. Back on tonight. Back on what he had said before Ikael had started reacting so… violently.

He tries to calm down. He stops. He thinks.

Ikael has wrenched himself away now, but is hovering a few fulms to the side, eyeing Thancred hesitantly now that he has stopped trying to detain him. He looks so… fragile, ready to flit away at a moment’s notice, but it is almost as if whatever… whatever trust there is between them is urging him to linger just a little bit longer. It is a sacred hesitance.

Thancred knows his next words are so important, so trivial, so _critical_. He says, “Your worth has not… lessened in my eyes, Ikael.”

It is almost the wrong thing to say. Ikael looks ready to bolt, but Thancred presses on, growing confident, “It is out of respect for others that I ask you to pay heed to them. Does that not make sense? It is not out of disrespect for _you_.”

Ikael’s face becomes a grimace, and Thancred waits for it to turn into words. It does, and Ikael says, voice trembling but discernable, “I-I…”

He breathes, tries again, and this time the words come spilling out.

“I am so _sorry_ ,” he whimpers. “I… I’m _horrible_ , and selfish, and you _h-hate_ me, and you—”

“No,” Thancred corrects gently, “I do not hate you. Let us try rephrasing that, alright?”

Ikael stares at him, and the only audible sound is his breathing for a long, long moment.

Then, quietly:

“I… _think_ that you hate me,” Ikael mumbles, “And I… _think_ that…. I am worth nothing to you, because I always presume that… I _think_ I always presume that I-I am the only one with problems, and that’s terrible and selfish I _know_ , and I shouldn’t _do_ it, and you’ve f-finally realized that I’m a horrible person and you want n-nothing to do with me, and in fact y-you never even liked me at all, you were just being nice, and nobody _cares_ about me because there’s nothing _good_ about me, and I’m just _useless_ for anything other than kill—”

“Okay, woah, slow down,” Thancred says, holding out his hands in an attempt at pacification. Ikael is obviously far more riled up than he had thought—it isn’t like him to be this emotional without a strong reason. “And what am I doing now, eh? If I do not care about you?”

Saying the words and looking at Ikael’s expression _hurts_ , but Thancred waits, and Ikael eventually mumbles, “I… don’t know. You’re…”

“What would you do?” Thancred suggests, “If our positions were reversed?”

Ikael… looks like he is thinking, which is—good. He says, “I would… I wouldn’t be mad at you. When people are upset they… they forget things. You would have forgotten, then, to ask, and yes, okay, it was a mistake, but people make those, and it was not… it was not intentional…”

He looks down. He seems as if he is trying, desperately, to cling to the hypothetical.

“I would not hold it against you; of course not,” Ikael says softly. “You… you are _you_ , to me. An honest mistake would not change that.”

He closes his eyes, breathes—still shakily, but with a visible effort to be calmer—and opens them.

“I know,” he says in a low voice. “I... I _know_. But… it is s-so hard, so hard to t-try to replace you with me. I-I’m not… I-I don’t…”

“You know, do you not?” Thancred responds. “And I would consider that major progress, Ikael. So tell me: Do I hate you?”

Ikael looks—stricken, confused, pained. “I-I-I,” he stammers, “I don’t…” A shaky breath. “Know? No? I-I do not…”

“Know,” Thancred finishes with a gentle smile. “And, no.” Ikael looks like he could use… “How about a hug, hm?”

Ikael sobs, dryly—and… hesitates. Thancred waits patiently, watches the array of emotions move across Ikael’s face before he finally steps forward and—Thancred meets him halfway. Ikael has made enough big steps, tonight.

“Th-thank you,” Ikael breathes, holding him oh-so-tightly, as if he is still afraid Thancred will get fed up and leave. _Never_ , Thancred thinks at him fondly, squeezing him back.

“You are doing so well,” Thancred murmurs, and Ikael sniffs.

A long minute passes in comforting silence, and their hearts beat next to each other—solid, alive. Life is fleeting and so are they, but they can _live_ for moments like these.

“We all love you very dearly, Ikael,” Thancred says, because he wants to, and Ikael makes a vulnerable sound.

“I know you only like those words when you are drunk,” Thancred continues good-naturedly, “But it is true. As much as _this_ —between us—is not one-sided, _you_ are not either. You give us love, and devotion, and compassion, and we would give it back tenfold. Do me a favour and try to remember that, alright?”

He smiles, and feels Ikael nod—with another sniffle. Thancred chuckles. “I should get paid for this,” he muses. “Hm… yes. Tataru would love the revenue.”

“I love you too,” Ikael pushes out in a hiccup, then _shakes_ , trembles non-stop, and Thancred holds him steadily, humming at him.

“I’ve got you,” he reassures softly. “I’ve got you, alright?”

“I _know_ ,” Ikael mumbles, and Thancred can hear his smile, because yes, Thancred realizes, he _does_.

~*~


	20. unsure

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> takes place the night after the last derrble

Ikael is feeling… unsure.

Not insecure. He is past that, at least for the moment. But he is thinking, as objectively as he can manage (not very, right now, but at least it is an effort), and he…does not know whether he is allowed to do what he wishes to do.

But he… he cannot sleep. He is lying in his bed, knees drawn up, head pressed to them, staring out his window, and he can see stars twinkling at him and he can see the world asleep around him but he cannot manage to relax. He needs a presence; he needs _warmth_ , comfort, trust, because he still feels a bit hollow from the day before even if he is better now.

He sits like this for what seems like bells, but it cannot be so, because the moon has barely moved when he finally decides to get up.

He pads over to Thancred's room, softly, leeching comfort from the texture of the wall against the pads of his fingers as he drags them across. He stops outside, breathes, waits, wonders if he is overstepping any boundaries.

Thancred had said… to ask. _You need to ask_. _Ahead of time_. But Ikael has not asked, and he does not want to wake Thancred with a linkpearl call so he can be pestered to deal with _Ikael_ ’s problems.

Ikael frets, shifts his weight, gets increasingly _nervous_ —he… should not be here…

The door opens, quickly and unexpectedly, and Ikael is left staring nonplussed at Thancred's frown.

“Who are you and why—” Thancred stops mid-sentence, blinks once at Ikael. His frown slowly fades.

“Oh—Ikael,” he says, and he does not sound irritated, but the rush of guilt washes over Ikael nevertheless.

Thancred yawns a little—it is endearing, and Ikael feels a pulse of affection warm his heart—and squeezes his eyes shut for a moment before looking at Ikael anew. He asks, “What is it?”

Ikael cannot tell him, can he? He is still staring, nonverbal. He watches as Thancred waits patiently, feels increasingly guilty for every second in which he cannot—will not?—speak. He hopes— _hopes_ that Thancred will not get angry, but it is inevitable, really.

Thancred says, “Well, all right then. Come in.”

He leaves the doorframe and goes back inside. Ikael balks a little.

He hesitantly steps in, and closes the door behind him. He manages to say, because Thancred had said to _ask_ , “Are you sleeping?”

He cringes. The words are not good enough. Yet he does not know which other ones to choose—

And Thancred replies, in a strangely easy tone, “No.”

… That is it?

Ikael is frozen there, knowing that he cannot say anything without crossing any stated boundaries, but…

Thancred yawns again, smaller this time, and then sits down on his bed and pats the space next to him.

Ikael doesn’t move.

“Come sit,” Thancred says, kicking his ankles a little.

Ikael… goes over. He pauses before sitting down, slowly.

Thancred smiles at him. “You alright?” he asks.

Ikael stares.

Thancred shuffles closer until Ikael can feel his warmth at his side. He yawns again—gods, has Ikael woken him?—and rests his head on Ikael’s shoulder. Then he reaches back, grabs a fistful of his blanket, and… gives it to Ikael?

“It is soft,” Thancred says, as if he expects that to help. He sighs a little, gently. Ikael can feel the exhale on the skin of his collarbone.

Ikael glances down, feels the fabric. It… _is_ soft—yes, that is… nice. And the design is different—has Thancred changed his sheets?

Ikael looks at Thancred in consideration. His hair is hiding his face, but he seems relaxed, at ease leaning against Ikael like this. Perhaps he had needed softer blankets—Ikael can understand that.

Silence stretches out peacefully. Ikael… needs to… ask, right?

… What does he need to ask, again?

Thancred stifles yet _another_ yawn—oh no—and tugs Ikael up the bed to the pillows.

“Sleep?” he mumbles, shimmying underneath the—nice, soft—blanket. Ikael follows suit automatically.

Ikael opens his mouth to reply—then he remembers, with the words—it slams into him like a sledgehammer—he says—

(Thancred has been sidling closer to Ikael, and has managed to get an arm around him by the time he speaks—)

“I—I didn’t _ask_ ; I’m so sorry, Thancred—I… I wanted to but then I forgot—I’m _sorry_ —”

“ _Oh_ ,” Thancred interrupts, surprised realization flashing across his eyes. “Is that why you… Hm. I did say that, didn’t I?”

He seems to be talking somewhat to himself, but Ikael nods emphatically nevertheless. Oh _no_ ; he should _leave_ —

“Hey, where are you going?” Thancred frowns at him, pulling at his arm. “Come—Come. You’re warm.”

Ikael is… warm, apparently. All… right.

He is tugged back into the bed, and Thancred immediately sprawls half across him, shifting around to get comfortable. When Ikael looks at him, his eyes are closing.

“Can’t do this with anyone else,” Thancred mutters quietly, finally settling his head next to Ikael’s shoulder. “And you’re so… fluffy.”

Fluffy? What—no matter. Thancred should not feel obligated to do this, regardless of how “fluffy” Ikael is.

“I didn’t _ask_ , Thancred,” Ikael echoes his words from earlier in an urgent whisper. “I shouldn’t be here taking advantage of you like this.”

“Move your head a little. No, that way,” Thancred instructs, and Ikael obeys. “You think _you_ are taking advantage of… ah. Ahem. You are being silly, Ikael,” he admonishes, eyes flitting open. “How about next time, you simply… knock, or something, and if you have done something truly egregious, I shall hold the right to refuse you. But,” another yawn, “I am the one who asked you to come inside, am I not?”

Thancred… is right, actually. Ikael blinks.

Thancred smiles at him gently. “You _are_ being silly,” he repeats. “Truth be told, Ikael… providing you comfort is an act that is, in and of itself, rather therapeutic. I would be lying if I said I… have not gained some confidence in myself because of you. So stop worrying and go to sleep, alright? Silly.”

He pokes Ikael. Teasingly.

“I _am_ being silly,” Ikael says out loud, to see if the words will stick. He waits, and… they… do.

Thancred sighs. “I just said that, did I not? Now shut up; I’m tired.”

He closes his eyes once more, and his fingers twitch on Ikael’s chest before relaxing. Ikael reaches up to take his hand, to feel the soft texture of his fingerprints, and he… calms, fully. It is not a little wondrous.

He turns his head to lay a gentle goodnight kiss on Thancred’s forehead (to which he gets a small murmur). Perhaps… perhaps things are a little different than he sees them sometimes, then. Perhaps it is like that for Thancred as well. Either way, Ikael is glad they can both be there for each other when these types of situations arise. It is worth… diamonds, to him. And he hopes Thancred feels the same way.

True friendship is a precious thing.

~*~

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> in case you're somehow not here from [ "ikael"](http://archiveofourown.org/series/909954) the series, i do have a [ tumblr ](http://draw-you-coward.tumblr.com/) on which i talk a lot about ikael, draw sometimes, and post updates!


	21. a little sad

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> set after "Best Friends Day"

Ikael is not… feeling his best right now.

It would be… almost a silly thing, really. He is fine, his temporary adventuring party is fine, everything is fine… and a set of Ikael’s old pugilist hora that he keeps as fond keepsakes have melted in a small pool of lava somewhere in Dravania.

Ikael picks at the calluses on his hands. It is… alright. He had carved a few crude drawings into them once, when he had gotten bored. They had been hideous and inaccurate, but solely for himself, and had made him smile whenever he had looked back at them.

It… is alright.

“You seem to be missing that boundless well of energy you usually possess,” someone comments, and Ikael glances up to see Alisaie, hands splayed on her hips, eyeing him with a ghost of a smile. He quirks his mouth up in a quick imitation of one as well.

“Bit sore from this morning, that is all,” he says in a low tone. “Helped a few friendly strangers out with some unfriendly Dravanians.”

“Oh, I see,” Alisaie says. “Well, I came to tell you that Alphinaud ate all of the cookies already. I know you don’t make more than one batch per week, but perhaps… consider it, maybe, for next time? Ugh; I do not know. My brother apparently _insists_ on ruining everyone else’s most minor happiness.”

She is frowning by the time she finishes her statement. Ikael fakes a chuckle and says, “No more this week. You know my rules. But I will make sure to put it… higher, for next week. Bring a step stool.”

Alisaie spreads her hands. “’Tis the best I can get, I suppose. And more than I’d hoped." She gives Ikael one last parting smile before wandering off.

He stays like he is for as many minutes as he can count, perhaps, before Thancred comes up to him.

“There you are,” says Thancred, perching on a box next to Ikael. “You did not make lunch today! I had to buy my own—it was _horrible_. Do you know that the vendors here do not even bother to write my name with a little heart on a card when they give me my meal? Terrible service. I feel un-smothered.”

“Now that is an exaggeration,” Ikael offers quietly. He has no energy for banter today, and Thancred will leave him be once he realizes he is being boring. “I don’t think I’ve ever done that.”

Thancred does not reply immediately, but Ikael does not think too much of it, instead glancing out the window. It is an average enough day—a little sun, a little mysterious purple mist. It is nice enough outside, he knows.

“Too tired to make lunch?” Thancred asks, and when Ikael looks back at him he is sporting a small smile.

“Ah—a bit.” Ikael folds his fingers together, because he knows from experience that his hands will bleed if he picks at them too much. “Sorry about that; I’ll make a big meal tomorrow.”

“No, ‘tis fine,” Thancred says. He shifts over on his box so he is closer to Ikael.

“You seem a bit down,” he offers.

“O-oh. I… I’m okay, really; just tired. I don’t mean to bring down the mood.”

“You are not,” Thancred says, and cups Ikael’s shoulder with his hand. “What’s wrong?”

Ikael feels his ears droop even lower. “Nothing’s wrong, Thancred. Really, I’m okay. I am sorry if I am worrying you.”

“Nothing’s wrong?” Thancred echoes. He is closer now, and he drapes an arm across Ikael’s shoulders. “Are you sure?”

Ikael glances up at him, and—oh. He looks back down at his feet.

“It is silly,” he mutters, hunching down further.

Thancred makes a gentle noise, and starts brushing his thumb against Ikael’s skin in a soothing, repeated motion. “Even if it is,” he says, “Is it upsetting you enough that you want a hug?”

 _Oh_. Now that he has suggested it, Ikael feels the need for comfort turn from a small yearning to a yawning ache. He looks Thancred in the eye and nods, miserably.

Thancred envelops him, and Ikael closes his eyes, relaxing into the sensation and curling his tail around them. He is—so grateful.

“Thank you,” he mumbles into Thancred's neck, and he gets a hush and what feels like a small peck on his head in reply. He melts.

“Come,” says Thancred as he draws back, still keeping no more than a fulm away. “Let us go do something fun. Perhaps bake you a pie, hm? Or kill some bandits, or something? Which is it you do in your free time, again?”

Ikael lets out a very, very small laugh. “Both,” he mumbles, and Thancred grins brightly.

“Both, then!” he says. “Come on. And I shall even let you hold my hand if you promise to bake another batch of cookies for the week—it seems Alphinaud ate them all. Greedy little bugger.”

Ikael laughs a little more at this, and does not hold Thancred's hand—he is not too fond of the feel of the act, nor is he a child—but maybe clings on to his arm, a little. Thancred does not seem to mind.

And for once, Ikael does not think of providing recompense for his kindness.

~*~


	22. tolerance

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> Written and set directly after 4.1. Contains very vague allusions to an opinion, but no people are mentioned by name.

It is nighttime, and Thancred is going for somewhat of an idle walk, still keeping close enough to civilization should anything arise that he need be summoned for. A break, they had been told, for the Scions. Well—perhaps not for Ikael, he knows—but Thancred, at least, can afford to go for a breath of fresh air.

He notices Ikael more by presence rather than sound. The air is calm and peaceful, the ground still holding the scent of rain; it is a nice night. Thancred feels an indignantly volatile force of energy stalk towards him despite it all, and greets his friend with a wave.

Ikael’s shoulders are hunched, his posture still tense from recent events. His ears are flattened back at an annoyed angle and his tail is twitching in agitation. Either no one had noticed, or no one had paid much heed to him, because the frustration in his gaze looks long-standing.

“Thancred,” he grits out, and Thancred almost spreads his arms out in a welcoming gesture before thinking better of it. He waits for Ikael to approach further.

“Care to go for a walk with me?” he offers, even if he knows Ikael will not accept. Thancred reckons he would much rather take his frustration out on a training dummy.

Ikael sighs; a curt, rushed exhale. “Are you feeling tired?” he asks.

Thancred knows what is coming next. He shakes his head, quickly doing inventory of his knives.

“Spar with me,” Ikael says. It is not framed like a request, but it is one nevertheless. Thancred knows that if he refuses, Ikael will nod, take it in stride, and perhaps scream into his pillow before he sleeps tonight.

“There is a flat hilltop some ways that way,” Thancred suggests, and Ikael visibly relaxes by a fraction, gratefulness taking over his expression. It seeps into his shoulders, and they do not loosen, exactly, but some of the tension changes from stress to anticipation.

Ikael closes his eyes briefly. “Thank you,” he breathes, and Thancred offers him a pat on the shoulder.

They reach the area Thancred had spotted earlier, and Ikael barely waits for Thancred's signal before charging him with a clenched jaw. Thancred meets his fists with the hilts of his blades, and they begin.

Ikael’s movements are focused and serious, as they ever are, but there is something different in the way he fights—there is an emotion there that is usually detached, strategically separated from the battlefield. And when he starts leaving himself purposefully open, when he takes but a moment too long to block a strike, Thancred decides to stop.

He has to pull the sharpest of his blades up against Ikael’s throat in order to do this, because gods know the man is perseverant—he would keep doggedly fighting even on his deathbed, if he were able. Even so, it is only when Thancred winces at a bead of blood oozing down the length of his blade does Ikael give in and acknowledge their sparring session to be over.

Thancred makes his way to a boulder jutting out nearby, and climbs atop it, attempting to even out his breathing. Even with Ikael holding back in the strange way he was, fighting is always a tiring activity.

“Come,” Thancred says, turning and beckoning to Ikael. “Sit with me and watch the stars, and mayhaps tell me why you nearly let me cut you in half a dozen times just now.”

Ikael huffs out an amused breath at this, and goes over. He hops up the boulder with lazy ease, and Thancred squints at him. Ikael is closer to Lyse’s age than his, but still… such stamina is almost annoying. He should be _tired_.

Ikael looks at Thancred, and seems to read something in his expression, because he scoots closer and leans against him, wrapping an arm around his shoulders. Thancred drops his head onto Ikael’s own shoulder in return, grateful for the familiarity of the contact. He feels as if he is on uneven ground like this, and the touch… helps.

“To tell you the truth,” Ikael says, and his voice is not exactly soft, but it is honest, at least, “It was because I knew you’d notice.”

Thancred suppresses the urge to immediately utter a retort, and takes some time to dwell on this revelation. After a minute, he says, “Are we that bad?”

Ikael lifts his head to look at him.

“Oh, Thancred,” he says, and _now_ his face is softening into a fond smile, “ _You_ are not. You are amazing, and I am very glad I have you. But… otherwise…”

He sighs, and stares off into the distance. Thancred brings a hand up to hesitantly pet his hair—truth be told, he does not know whether the motion is more for Ikael or himself.

“I am… getting tired,” Ikael says at last, quiet and worn. “Of not getting spiteful. It is easy, usually, and a few months ago I would have thought naught of it. But… _gods_. I am not one to beg for sympathy, Thancred, but it feels… cheap, when someone else is being…” He looks down at his hand, clenches and unclenches his fingers.

“When someone else is being pathetic,” he bites out, “and for some reason everyone is flocking to them. I do not deny them that, but… it is a farce. To _me_ , at least. Warrior of Light I may be, but I would not presume to be _friend_ to someone unless they acknowledge that that is… disrespectful. It _feels_ disrespectful. Not… just to me, but…”

He stops.

“No,” he says. “To me.”

He looks at Thancred, full in the eye. “I do not wish to sound selfish,” he says, “But I feel as if I deserve at least an acknowledgement—of what I have been through. What I have…. _That_ I have suffered.”

Thancred expression is heavy with sympathy, he is sure. He reaches out, lightly strokes Ikael’s arm.

Ikael’s face creases. “I… _have_ suffered,” he says, oh-so-quietly. “And you have, too. And _so_ many have. And I…”

He closes his eyes, bows his head.

“I would trade a million effervescent praises,” he says in a low voice, “A thousand belated apologies… for someone to ask if I was _okay_.”

His voice cracks on the last word, and Thancred feels something in his heart clench as he wordlessly pulls Ikael close. It is a short night and they will be expected in the morning, probably, but Eorzea can wait a moment for them to catch their breaths.

“I will always be there for you,” Ikael promises into Thancred's sternum after minutes have passed. “Always, okay? You… keep me _sane_. And I hope that,” he breathes, “I can do the same for you. I hope that I can be as important to you as you are to me.”

Thancred shuts his eyes. “You are, Ikael,” he says determinedly. “You _do_ affect people as more than just perhaps incorrect idealist motivation. You are more a person than a fighter, I promise.”

Ikael’s breathing stutters, because Thancred has hit the nail on the head, of course. He squeezes Thancred, _tightly_.

Thancred does not mind. If Ikael needs someone to be his number one _Ikael_ fan rather than number one _Warrior of Light_ fan, he will gladly play the role.

With Ikael here, like this, strong and fierce and loyal, it is not hard.

~*~

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> gosh 4.1 made me salty lol. and i'm... not as nice as ikael.  
> (poor woL needs a Break)


	23. there once were two fools in ul'dah

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> who... ugh i'm terrible at rhyming

Ul’dah was a hot country. This was a known and acknowledged fact. Yet Thancred was feeling… well. Itchy, a bit uncomfortable, and a not a little sniffly besides.

Perhaps it had been the exposure to the strange aether patterns he had been sent to investigate, or perhaps it had been the weather, or perhaps even some newfound allergies. Nevertheless, Thancred knew he needed bed rest—at the very least, to avoid Ikael’s needling when he returned home.

And, well, _Ikael_ was a nice thought right around now, while Thancred started trudging over to the Quicksand (he might get a reprimand from Momodi, but he’d also get an inn room). Ikael had been hopping around in what looked like furs as of late, and Thancred had seen him at one point with a small cartload of glamour prisms and even _more_ furs. There was… some humour in that, probably… Thancred giggled a little. Ikael… furry… furs…

(Was it considered uncivilized to wear them, to miqo’te? Oh no—was it possible to _skin_ a miqo’te? The thought was barbaric; Thancred could never imagine doing such a—)

He stopped. Squinted.

He had reached the Quicksand. That in and of itself wasn’t much of a revelation; no, Thancred was peering at an odd and familiar-looking furry shape curled on the ground outside of the front steps. He poked it with his foot.

The shape grunted, and opened its eyes to peep at him. Then it uncurled into an Ikael.

“Thancred! Hey,” Ikael mumbled, cheerily enough.

Thancred stared at him. “What are you doing?” he asked.

 “Sleeping,” Ikael replied, which was… fair.

Thancred frowned. This was too confusing, somehow. He was going to get a headache.

“But you’re not… inside?” Perhaps this _did_ make sense. Ikael was an odd sort of fellow—mayhaps he liked sleeping outside for… whatever reason.

“I have a hundred and fourteen gil,” Ikael said.

“ _What!?”_ said Thancred.

“I have—” Ikael began to repeat himself.

“What the—what did you _spend_ it on?” Thancred demanded, arching his hands on his hips.

“Pants.”

Thancred closed his eyes. He didn’t open them for a minute after that, because it felt nice and was a little bit of a relief, maybe.

He had to when he felt Ikael drape himself across his torso and slump down with a sigh. Thancred scowled, stumbling back a step, and barely managed to catch their combined weight.

“’m sick,” Ikael mumbled as explanation into his neck.

Thancred groaned. “Great. I am too.”

“I know,” Ikael said. “I can tell. You look… smell, feel… sicky. Eheheh.”

“That’s not a word,” Thancred muttered. “Idiot.”

Ikael whined, wrapping his arms around him, and Thancred pushed at him with an annoyed noise.

“You’re too hot!” he said. “Gods. Ugh. No clinging until we get inside.”

Ikael settled for winding himself around Thancred's arm. “I’ll pay you back, Thancred,” he mumbled into his shoulder as Thancred dragged them up the stairs. “I’ll pay you with… money. Love. Food.”

“You only have one of those three things at your disposal right now,” Thancred said, pushing at the entrance doors perhaps a bit harder than he was used to, “And while I appreciate it, it can aid neither of us of with our illnesses. I have funds enough to get us _food_ , at least, as well as sanctuary in the form of a room and perhaps a few extra pillows.”

“You talk,” Ikael moaned, “… _so_ much. Shut up. Ugh—everyone’s so _loud_ in here.”

It _was_ loud—either more so than usual, or the regular amount and it just happened to grate at them more. Either way, the tavern was full of energy and adventurers, most talking or making deals, a couple apparently having a bard-off in the corner—interesting—and a few doing… other strange things. Thancred shook his head. The Quicksand could be an odd place at times.

“This pillar. Hug this pillar,” Thancred instructed Ikael, who obeyed dutifully. Once Thancred was sure Ikael was anchored enough to not be lost by the time he came back, he moved to secure them a room; preferably one away from the noise.

Momodi, as expected, scolded him for his somewhat sorry state—and scolded him more firmly when she caught sight of Ikael dozing off against his pillar—but waived the fee for the room when Thancred turned to Otopa to inquire.

“’Tis free for Ikael,” she said, “And therefore for you as well. So is the food I will send up, Thancred—and I will have naught of your insistence. You require rest and recuperation, and that is final. Now take the poor dear upstairs before either of you pass out.”

Thancred did, pulling Ikael away from his new, inanimate friend whilst idly humming the ends of a song he recognized from the nearby bardic competition.

The room had a double bed, which was nice, because Ikael tended to switch between shrinking himself into a ball and making like an octopus when he slept. Thancred nudged him towards the bed, trusting him to mostly take care of himself, and set about unlacing his boots.

“How much was the… money?” Ikael asked. There was a thumping noise.

“Free,” Thancred said promptly, before remembering that he wasn’t supposed to tell Ikael that for whatever reason. He shrugged—he was sure it didn’t matter.

“Oh _no!_ ” Ikael cried in dismay. Oh. That was why. “I’ll have to… bake her… cook… _cake_! Meat pies… Momodi loves meat pies…”

“Shuddup,” Thancred grumbled, plopping down next to Ikael and pushing his shoes out of the way. “Hey… hey. Is it true you once fondled a helpless old man and stole all of his clothing?”

Ikael made a confused noise at his face, and that is when their food arrived. Ikael stumbled up and attempted to dump a meagre amount of gil on their server—No!—Thancred swiped at him to make him stop, Ikael yelped and perhaps tripped a little… it was all rather fuzzy, but five minutes later they were sitting (more or less) at the desk and happily chomping away.

“It’s: ‘ _There once was a maiden fair_ ,’ not ‘ _a maid with hair_ ,’” Thancred was telling Ikael. He slurped at his soup.

“‘There once was a maiden fair… that for some reason lost all her hair,’” Ikael started.

Thancred snorted in amusement, catching on with glee. “‘She bought herself tonic, which… was rather ironic…’” Not his most prolific work, but the best he could manage at the moment.

“Uh… ‘Because she was allergic to the care!’” Ikael finished, and then started giggling.

Ikael was a _terrible_ poet. Thancred giggled along with him. This went on for… some time.

“Eat your soup,” Ikael scolded him with a smile after their fit had subsided. Thancred flicked his spoon at him.

They were in bed but a bell and a half later, because they were both feeling rather tired and weary. Ikael curled up, as was his wont, Thancred squirmed into place next to him, and then they were falling asleep, warm and comfortable and quite fuzzy-headed.

They would wake up to feel like the depths of the seventh hell itself, but that was a problem for the next morning.

~*~


	24. allergies

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> (very brief nausea mention, implied vomiting)

Ikael collapses on his bed, clutching at his abdomen. He manages to kick his boots off, and curls up tightly, rocking back and forth. He had barely been able to draw on sufficient aether to make the rather taxing trip from Kugane to the Rising Stones—and, oh—he definitely hadn’t paid the teleportation fee when he had arrived. He feels bad—absently, in some pain-laced corner of his mind—but he can go back later.

It is still mostly dark here, the sun barely brushing the sky with hues of orange and pink, but Ikael is in no mind to appreciate it. Ugh… _shrimp_. Why hadn’t he asked if there had been shrimp in the food?

He makes an ugly little grunting noise when his lack of movement for but a second causes the ache to intensify. He tucks his head into his knees and starts rocking again.

Hopefully it will pass soon.

~*~

It does not pass soon.

Ikael doesn’t know how long he has been lying in bed, mewling and bleating pathetically into his pillows, but he does not want to get up to check. Perhaps… days. Yes; probably days.

He thinks someone knocks on his door at some point, but he is half asleep, and cannot be sure. He naps, then hobbles up to pee, then hobbles back and lies there feeling sorry for himself. His stomach is aching, his throat is dry, his eyes are itchy and sore from lack of proper sleep, and he maybe wants a little bit to die in a hole and pop back up only when he is absolutely _needed_ to fight a primal.

It is when he is going through a spell of timing short, open-mouthed breaths to soothe his stomach that he hears what is _definitely_ a knock. He wants to tell the person at his door to come in, have some tea, perhaps, but at the same time he does not wish to disturb his strange, perfect breathing pattern. He settles for rocking a bit from side to side to acknowledge them. Hopefully they will be able to tell.

“Ikael?” someone calls, and oh—that is Thancred's voice! How… lovely of him to visit. Ikael keens a little, a continuous noise.

“Can I come in?” Thancred asks, and Ikael keens somewhat louder, at a speaking volume. He stops when he feels another, slightly more nausea-inducing, pang in his stomach.

The door handle turns—he can hear it, even if the only thing he can see is his own hair and his blanket—and then there is the unmistakable sound and smell of someone entering the room.

“Ah—are you still… sleeping? Ikael?” Thancred's voice drops tentatively quiet.

Ikael is not sleeping. He rocks a little harder.

“’Tis past lunchtime, my friend!” Thancred says, voice getting closer. “I had thought to look for you when I didn’t see you all morning—a few people claimed to have spotted you come in earlier. Ah… including a rather displeased aetheryte fee keeper. I thought you had slept in, but…. I say, are you quite alright?”

Ikael can only let out a small whimper, turning his face further into the bed. He tightens his arms around his knees.

“Ikael?” Thancred sounds rather alarmed. “What happened? Are you alright?”

Ikael does not respond—he wants to, but he does not think speaking is a good idea right now.

He feels a hand settle on his back, drift over to his shoulder and stroke downwards in a soothing motion. “Did something happen? Oh—you’re not crying. By the Twelve… are you in pain? Is that it?”

Ikael manages a nod, whining louder. He wants it to _stop_.

“Are you hurt? Are you bleeding?” Thancred's tone turns curt and business-like. “Do you need a healer?”

Ikael shakes his head, increasing his rocking speed with the motion. He thinks it helps, a little.

“Hurts,” he whimpers into his arm.

“ _Oh_. Alright, I—” Thancred's weight settles on the bed. His voice goes oh-so-soft. “Can you tell me where? Which part hurts?”

“Make it stop,” Ikael murmurs, feeble.

Thancred curses quietly. When he speaks, he sounds pained. “I… I want to, I promise, Ikael. But you need to tell me what hurts, alright? What is it exactly?”

Ikael groans as another ache pulses through him, and Thancred's fingers dig into his back for a second before deliberately relaxing. Ikael manages to cobble together a few strands of energy, because he does not wish to be a bad sport, and mumbles, “Cramps.”

Thancred does not say anything at first. After a second, he ventures, “Uh… o-okay. I am… unfamiliar with… that, but I can try to… ah…” He trails off awkwardly.

What? Oh—not _those_ kind of cramps, idiot. “ _Stomach,”_ Ikael grits out.

“Oh.” Thancred sounds relieved. “Did you eat something off, then? This is… an extreme reaction, and you are not one to—”

Ikael makes a pained sound, and Thancred stops.

“I… am going to get a chirurgeon,” he says tightly. “You just hang in there, alright? I promise I will return as swiftly as I am able.”

He rises, then leans down to squeeze Ikael’s shoulder. He says into his ear, “Do not worry, sweetling; I will make haste. It will be as if I never left.”

All at once the contact is broken, Thancred's fingertips brushing against Ikael’s hair and leaving, and Ikael draws his form up tighter as he feels his presence drift further and further away.

~*~

Ikael is buckling over a bin he has dragged out when Thancred returns. He is with—a _stranger_ —Ikael whines, wiping crudely at his mouth and shuffling back. He does not wish to—be seen like this. He presses a hand into the flesh of his now-empty stomach, not liking how weak his body feels.

Thancred's eyes flit to the bin before he steps forward, supporting Ikael without being asked to. He is so kind, and Ikael trusts him so…. He blinks up at him.

“He shall help you get better, Ikael,” Thancred says in a low voice. “I am sorry I could not find anyone you know, but I did not wish to leave you overlong. I will be right here by your side, okay? Right here.”

Ikael does not pause to consider—he nods, trusting Thancred—and clutches at him while the chirurgeon looks him over.

“His body is rejecting something it came into contact with. …Consumed, by the looks of it. Do you know what caused this, Ikael?”

The chirurgeon is referring to him by his name. Ikael does not like how invasive that feels. “Shrimp,” he mumbles into Thancred, to get the stranger to leave.

“… Shrimp?” Thancred echoes after a beat. “Pardon?”

The chirurgeon, however, seems to understand. “Allergies?” he asks, and Ikael nods.

“Ah. There is little I can do to combat your body’s natural reaction, unfortunately. However, I can attempt to ease some of the pain, if you think it will help.”

“Please,” Thancred answers before Ikael can say anything. “It is quite severe—I have never seen him get like this.”

Thancred is… _worried_ , Ikael realizes. Bless him, although Ikael has been in worse pain than this. To be fair, at least, most of those situations are on the battlefield, when he is not with the Scions.

There is a draw of aether, a noise—and Ikael feels the aching pulses be leeched away from his body like poison from a wound. He sighs in relief as the pain dulls to a low throbbing—before slumping weakly against Thancred. He feels frail and unsteady, as if whatever little strength he has left to stand upon is leaving him.

Thancred holds him easily, grip strong and secure. He thanks the chirurgeon—Ikael has not even learned his name—and dismisses him. The man leaves with a bow that Ikael barely catches, and then Thancred is gently leading Ikael to his sink.

“Rinse your mouth out,” he says, stroking Ikael’s back reassuringly. “Easy does it. Here; now that I know where you keep your damned glasses—”

Ikael accepts the cup, clutches at it and feels its smooth surface, and does as Thancred tells him. Thancred makes kind noises at him, and Ikael is being walked back to his bed now, laid gently down and tucked in. Thancred must have… straightened out his bedsheets, at some point—how kind…

“… Love you,” Ikael murmurs shakily, and Thancred's face goes lax.

“Get some sleep for me, alright?” he asks, leaning down to kiss Ikael on the forehead. Ikael’s eyes flutter close. He _is_ tired… “I shall clean up—do not worry. Oh, and next time you decide to consume a food you are nearly deathly allergic to, pray seek help _immediately_. Honestly, Ikael, it is a miracle you manage to take care of yourself…”

Ikael is not listening to whatever it is Thancred is saying, but his voice is soft and soothing, and his fingertips are brushing Ikael’s temple and cheek… it is so _comforting_ …

He is warm and tender and loved. He sleeps.

~*~

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> yep, this can happen. and yep, it sucks. heh.


	25. the sound of incompetence

“It’s, _Do, Re, Mi,_ not _Do, La, Re, Mi_ ,” Thancred tells Ikael, chuckling. He hums the notes, slowly and easily, and Ikael, completely tone-deaf, attempts to copy him.

Thancred smiles. “You are helpless,” he says warmly, but without any real heat. Ikael beams at him, and kicks his booted feet against the rock they are sitting on.

He looks rather cozy today. He is, remarkably, wearing sleeves—an entire sweater, in fact, warm and knitted and a shade of green that is _baffling_ because it… actually matches his eyes. That he managed to colour-coordinate somehow is unfathomable, so Thancred is sure it is completely by accident. Not that it matters, because the sweater dwarfs him anyhow—not least because Ikael is somewhat slight—and the effect in its entirety is rather endearing. Damn him for being able to pull things like that off; Thancred would have surely just received a reprimand and a request to put on something less tight than, well… tights.

Thancred had been… moping, he will admit, about how long it had taken him to travel all the way to Gridania. At times he still sorely misses his ability to wield aether—and at others he does his best to forget about that particular impotence of his. Then Ikael had popped up, trotting around with a twig-like shortbow and dressed like a child. He had brightened up upon seeing Thancred, making a beeline straight for him, and… well. Thancred's mood has since improved.

“ _Do, Re…_ ah… _Di_ ,” Ikael tries, singing badly, and Thancred shakes his head.

“ _Mi_ ,” he corrects.

“What about you?” Ikael says, then grins, gleeful that he has pulled off his jest. Thancred rolls his eyes, pressing back a smile.

Ikael rocks forward a little, before wincing and tugging at his shortbow. He lays it in his lap, staring down at it and curling his tail neatly atop his legs in the way he does when he is trying to decide something.

Thancred surely _hopes_ he is trying to decide something, because it is a miracle he hasn’t gotten himself killed waving that flimsy excuse of a weapon around. Warrior of Light he may be, but when Ikael is bad at something… he is _bad_ at it.

Thancred waits, bumping Ikael’s elbow with his own. The words will come when Ikael wills them.

Surely enough: “So, I was… thinking…” he begins.

Thancred hums. “Always dangerous.”

“Shut up.” Ikael grins, bright. “I was thinking that Gridania is where the Archer’s Guild is, yes, but… I do not wish to train there. I don’t like…” He pauses. Winces.

“Gods, I’m sore,” he mutters. “Well, both physically and metaphorically, I suppose. I know you were posted in Ul’dah, but… have you seen the way they treat Keepers here? ’Tis despicable.”

His mouth twinges unhappily. Thancred makes an agreeing noise, and moves to rub at Ikael’s shoulders. His fingers sink mostly into soft green wool, but he can feel the tense muscle underneath.

“Oh—thank you. Well in any case, I did not want to generate any unnecessary animosity, you know—I’m new, after all—so I didn’t say anything to the guildmaster, but… gods, that poor Keeper girl… I cannot get her to listen to me.”

Thancred glances up, having surreptitiously leaned down to sniff at Ikael’s hair. He is so… soft right now. _Thancred_ wants a sweater—although he can only imagine how much of a small (and readily spent, probably) fortune this one had cost Ikael.

“Thancred, are you listening to me?” Ikael sounds amused. He cranes his neck in Thancred's direction, and Thancred pokes his smile until it turns back around.

“You are ruining the massage,” he says, happily taking a fistful of soft, thick fabric and letting his fingers sink into it.

“My _apologies_ ,” Ikael intones. “Well anyways, I am sure it will all work out… with a little intervention on my part, probably.”

(Thancred is sure, too. Ikael is a… stalwart force against injustice, at times, and even if he tends to babble and fidget around a situation that bothers him—concerning _other_ people—he will, without fail, come around and face it. Thancred is happy in the knowledge that the Archer’s guild is completely unprepared for the whirlwind of sheer stubborn willpower headed their way. So there is… not that much to worry about, truly. Change will come in time, and Gridania will _take_ time.)

Thancred scratches at Ikael’s ears, which flick at him before drooping lazily. Ikael sighs.

“You are not paying attention to what I am saying at all, are you?” he murmurs, leaning back into Thancred's touch.

Thancred is, actually. “You should be a therapy cat,” he says, petting him. “As long as you do not talk, you are _very_ relaxing. And fuzzy.”

“ _Ugh_ , you are such an _arse_ ,” Ikael laughs. Thancred flicks him on his sweater-clad back lieu of a reply, and scoots closer.

“I wish you the best of luck on your quest to solve all of Eorzea’s problems single-handedly,” he says, and adds, over the noise of Ikael’s protests, “But for now, we can focus on the _worst_ offender: your singing. So repeat after me: _Do, Re, Mi, Fa…_ ”

Ikael groans, letting go, Thancred grins, pressing _on,_ and they start again.

~*~

 

extra: dodle for this <:

(full size [here](https://draw-you-coward.tumblr.com/post/171319826857/coloured-dodle-for-latest-drrble-3-aahh))

 


	26. contact

It is probably because he is a miqo'te.

Alright, it _is_ because he is a miqo'te. Ikael is not _that_ dense. There is something… innately cat-like about their behaviour, he supposes—for some absurd reason he has been pointed out the way he sits, of all things—that other races try to… emulate, at times. With mixed results.

Ikael knows he is approachable, and he _tries_ to be friendly, but even he has to reject a few unasked-for hugs and bat away a few grabby fingers reaching for his ears. A… little too often, actually.

He had met a hyur once—a soft-spoken midlander by the name of Oswyn—and they begun a relationship of sorts. But Oswyn had been shy, reaching out with his hands more than his words, and Ikael… hadn’t liked that too much.

Ikael likes being pet, he will admit. It feels nice—and any miqo’te who says it does not is lying. But massages also feel nice, sex also feels nice, and he would not be expected to readily supply that to anyone without so much as a word of consent. Oswyn had scratched his ears, rubbed at the base of his tail, asked Ikael to _purr_ for him, and… Ikael had, hesitantly, if only to please his partner.

Eventually, the small moments of uncomfortableness had gotten to be a bit too much. Ikael had gently pried Oswyn’s hands off of him, and suggested that they perhaps reconsider things, that Ikael wasn’t really what Oswyn had been looking for. Oswyn had listened quietly, had reluctantly backed off with minimal animosity, and they’d gone their separate ways.

Ikael knows—somewhere deep in his mind, even when it is being pointed out to him—that he tends to… let people run him into the ground however they want to, emotionally. He knows, sometimes, that he should stop, that he should put his foot down and refuse to give yet another piece of himself, but… he struggles. If he is helping someone, is it not worth whatever sacrifice he has to make? He knows that it will take from him, but he is prepared to deal with that. He is not willing to gamble with other people when he cannot for sure say how much _they_ will give of themselves, in lack of _him_.

It… is not healthy, he is learning, and sometimes he has to remind himself of that. But then again, fighting people’s battles for them, standing up to armies, freeing nations that are not his—are those not similar situations? And why is that, then, expected of him?

Ikael does not know where to draw the line. And for now… he does not have to. But someday, perhaps… some day he knows he will.

This new thought process of realizing his own sanity is… revealing things to him. He knows now that he can label the feeling he gets nowadays when he is with Alphinaud or Lyse as “neglect”, he knows why he feels different around Aymeric, or Raubahn, or even Nanamo. He knows that while he loves his friends dearly, there is a fundamental _respect_ of him as a person, with feelings, with a life to live, that leaders have been taught to see of all their soldiers and subjects that his friends… lack.

Love feels like… a tie, now. That binds him. It is becoming synonymous with duty. Ikael has never liked the word—too fragile, too fickle. It takes too much for granted and offers nothing in return. He does not like when people throw it around like it is just another word—to him, it will never be. Not in his heart.

But when he has a quiet moment, sometimes, when Y'shtola brings him a confection she has tried that she thinks he will like, or when Urianger quietly suggests a book to him that he finds interesting, Ikael feels it warm his chest briefly. It is enough, then, in those moments. Ikael knows he is alive.

Thancred is holding out… what appears to be a stuffed chocobo, with very long, straggly threads as feathers. It looks rather rough, and not like he had found it propped up against a proud shopkeeper’s window in Ul’dah.

“I bought it for you,” he says.

Ikael is somewhat offended, and… not a bit hurt. “I am not a child,” he replies, frowning.

“I did not mean it like that,” Thancred says. “It is quite soft—I thought you would appreciate it. For when… _if_ you ever need it.”

Ikael reaches out, feels the thin threads on the shaggy little toy.

It _is_ soft.

“Thank you,” he says, taking it.

Thancred smiles, and, as he always does, telegraphs his movements before reaching out to Ikael questioningly.

Ikael ducks his head with a dimple in his cheek, and allows Thancred to ruffle his hair.

Ikael does not require words, mostly—sometimes, he does not even like them. But… there are always ways to ask. Thancred scratches at his ears with a knowing grin, and Ikael rolls his eyes a little at his childish delight before giving him a quick hug.

“Thank you for the gift,” he murmurs, and Thancred's smile lights up his entire face.

~*~


	27. cross-classing

“Hit me!” Ikael called cheerfully, hopping back and forth on the balls of his feet.

“Uh,” said Thancred.

He had tried to mimic Ikael’s stance as best he could, keeping his feet apart and his fists loose, but Ikael had shaken his head, told him that the trick wasn’t in mimicry but in _intent_. Thancred could imitate him as much as he wanted to, but he wouldn’t learn unless he was driving the stances _himself_.

Thancred was lost. He knew how to fight with his fists, of course, but Ikael was not teaching him that.

“Do not pick and carve around, as you would with your blades,” Ikael instructed. “Follow through. Keep your strength flowing from one form to the next. Your entire body is your weapon, not just your swiftness or your fists.”

“I have no idea what you’re saying right now,” Thancred returned. “I understand the concept, but I will admit I lack the knowledge for the correct execution.” At least in the way Ikael meant.

“Hm.” Ikael seemed to think for a second, still lightly shifting his weight. Then he smiled as if a thought had occurred to him, and said, “Kick.”

Thancred stepped back quickly to aim his leg at him, but then Ikael had spun _upside-down_ and his entire weight was being driven forward into his foot as he threw a high kick at Thancred's shoulder. Thancred barely managed to catch it. Even so, the force of the blow sent him to his knees and backed him up a few fulms. If he had tried to block instead of absorb its impact, he would have surely shattered the bones of his forearm.

Ikael hopped back into a handstand, then sprung to his feet. Thancred wrung his wrists out.

“It seems,” he said, “That I misunderstood.”

“No misunderstanding,” Ikael said cheerfully, and then, “Front,” and that was all the warning Thancred got before he was being body-checked by 130-odd ponzes of energetic miqo’te.

“Do not brush aside the impact,” Ikael told him five seconds later, extending an arm to help him up. “From the way you just moved, I could have twisted and broken your arm. Take my energy. Absorb and reflect it. Flow with me.”

“Are you going to tackle me again?” Thancred asked, accepting the hand up.

Ikael closed his hand around Thancred's forearm, locking them together. “ _Absorb_ ,” he said, digging his nails in.

Thancred tried to reciprocate, but Ikael yanked him in closer until their foreheads were pressed together. He jerked Thancred's arm upwards, weakening his grip, and held fast.

He dug his nails in harder. They were starting to send little pricks of pain shooting along Thancred's skin.

“Reflect,” Ikael said. “Mirror. Give back the energy I am taking.”

He was slowly twisting Thancred's arm further and further inwards. If he kept this up, his shoulder would dislocate. Thancred grit his teeth, trying to figure out what he _wanted_ —

Ikael _growled_ at him, sudden and vicious, ilms from his face. At the same time, he dug in _sharply_ with his nails, and Thancred instinctively jerked back—

Ikael’s body followed his—he was so _close_ —Thancred could not _move_ like this—he shifted his foot back—

Stepped—

And threw his full weight into his knee, driving it forcefully into Ikael’s side. _Get back!_

Ikael fell to the ground _hard_ , making a choked, gasping noise as the strength behind Thancred's blow crumpled him nearly in half. Thancred jumped back, startled, staring at him with wide eyes.

Then he was kneeling down, checking in on Ikael—he hadn’t sprung back up; was he hurt? _Shite—_

Ikael was… grinning.

“That’s it!” he wheezed happily, ears wiggling. “You’ve got it!”

Thancred let out a quiet breath of relief. “I feared for but a moment that I had hurt you,” he said with a small smile, helping Ikael up.

“You did!” Ikael exclaimed cheerily. “That was extremely painful! Now _again_ , until I say we can stop.”

Thancred groaned inwardly. If Ikael had his way, they would be here… all day, most likely.

Ikael jogged back, preparing to charge him, and Thancred readied himself.

~*~


	28. sleep

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> loosely inspired by this.  
> warnings for blood ment, death ment, general nightmare-y stuff

Ikael dreams tonight of fire and war and blood.

He dreams he is walking, and he hears… laughter. Laughter that echoes through his soul and pulls him forward. He walks, not knowing his surroundings, nor where he came from, nor his destination. His feet are dragging him to where he cannot help but be.

Then he is at Rhalgr’s reach, and he sees… Zenos. Standing tall and proud, waiting for him patiently. His blade is crimson, and his teeth are a brilliant white. He is grinning at Ikael with mad eyes.

He is not the one laughing.

At his feet lie the Scions. They are bloodied and bloodless, freshly killed yet eternally slumbering. Their gazes are sightless, but they stare at Ikael so _accusingly_ …

Zenos is not the one laughing. Ikael listens, in horror, as he starts to recognize the voice. He puts a hand to his chest. It is moving. He feels his mouth, and it is stretched into a grimace of a smile. He laughs, _heartily_ , rejoicing at all this murder and destruction and _death, Death, DEATH—_

Ikael _screams_.

He wakes up with a gasp, shaking. He… is awake. It was a dream. It was…

He is padding out of his room with tremors in his heart. He reaches—a door. He knocks; short, staccato raps.

The door opens. Y'shtola looks past him quietly.

“Ikael,” she says.

“I…” He does not know how to ask. “Please,” he begs.

She beckons, and he stumbles in gratefully. Then she is embracing him gently, resting her head on his heartbeat.

“Be calm,” she says, stroking his back with her fingertips.

Ikael shuts his eyes, jitters out a breath. Y'shtola’s fingers reach his hair, part the strands gently. Brush past his ears. He can hear—feel—the whisper-soft press of her skin.

“Be calm, small Warrior,” she repeats, and he shudders, letting her soothe him.

“Come,” she says, and takes his wrist—not his hand—to let him lie in her bed.

He lays on his back, and tries to regulate his breathing. She pulls the covers up over them, rests her head against his chest.

“Sleep when you are ready to,” she says, taking his hand and placing it to her head, “And not before.”

Ikael stares at her ceiling. He is grateful.

“Thank you,” he breathes. “I am… this means a lot.”

She shuts her sightless eyes. Her fingers rest against his sternum, a light pressure.

“I know,” she says.

She falls asleep. Ikael closes his eyes, and waits.

~*~


	29. affection

“And then I told her, ‘No, you have to add the salted _cream_ to the ice, not milk.’ And she got it! It was delicious, of _course_. Say, you grew up in Limsa, right?”

“Yes,” Thancred murmurs, watching Ikael with a soft smile. They are sitting comfortably on a couch in the reading area, simply chatting. The second volume of Thancred's poetry book lies facedown on the table by their feet, long-forgotten.

“Did you ever have their ice cream? Or were you too busy stealing purses? Well. If you haven’t tried, you simply have to! It’s _lovely_ , Thancred—I’ll take you someday. Oh—we can pay a visit to the Culinarian’s Guild while we’re there too! I haven’t seen them in a while; I wonder how they’re doing…”

Thancred chuckles. “All the better for your acquaintance, I am sure,” he says. His eyes are warm.

“Oh, you.” Ikael play-slaps him lightly on the shoulder. “Stop it. You’ll make me blush. Oh! Did I tell you about the girl who…”

He keeps talking. Thancred listens, smiles, and shifts closer, wrapping his arms around Ikael’s frame and pressing his head down into the embrace.

“Uh?” Ikael sounds surprised. “Thancred?” He hasn’t moved his arms—not that he can, much, with Thancred hugging him like this.

“I am glad you are our Warrior of Light,” Thancred says, and looks up to smile at him. “So glad.”

“Uhh… okay!” Ikael pats him on the head. “Oh, you can be strange some…” He trails off, glancing at Thancred. His eyelids lower.

Thancred chuckles, deep in his chest. “What about this girl?” he asks, leaning back against the couch and rubbing Ikael’s arms. He still does not let him go.

Ikael’s lips part, and for a second he says nothing, watching Thancred. Then he clears his throat, and continues.

“Right; so she had lost her dress, it seems…”

Thancred laughs, and hums, and gives Ikael his full attention.

~*~


	30. appearances

Thancred knocks _again_ , a little louder this time. “Ikael!” he calls in amusement, “Come on! We are going to be late, and you know how Alphinaud _lectures_.”

There is a scuttling sound, and Thancred crosses his arms patiently as he waits. Then the door is opening, and Ikael is pulling Thancred inside.

“Okay, you need to tell me how this looks,” he says, and totters around in a little twirl.

Thancred blinks at him, eyes drifting to the expanse of his back before taking in the rest of the dress. It is long, blood-red, and looks like it must have either cost Ikael a fortune or been gifted to him by a very… gracious admirer.

Ikael himself is quite made-up, his lips painted to match his dress and his eyes artfully done. That must have _definitely_ been someone else—Thancred knows Ikael has little skill in that department. He looks lithe, delicately androgynous in a way that Thancred has seldom seen in full; the way the silk of the dress wraps around his form adds to that effect.

Thancred feels an odd swell in his chest, and blinks at himself, frowning internally. He has no business feeling like a father giving away his child’s hand in marriage—it is _ridiculous_. And he has no… brotherly claim to Ikael either, of course.

Of course.

Ikael flutters a hand at him. His nails, of course, are completely undone. Thancred chuckles to himself. _Figures_.

“Thancred!” Ikael calls anxiously, “Hello? Please be honest.”

Thancred's eyes soften as he looks Ikael up and down again—not to leer, but to simply take him in. He meets his gaze.

“You look beautiful,” he says sincerely.

Ikael’s mouth opens in surprise, and he blinks. Then he is blushing, ducking his head, and Thancred laughs.

“Oh… you cannot just say things like that and expect me to stay calm.” Ikael presses his hands to his cheeks, then deliberately removes them. “Oh, Jandelaine is going to kill me if I ruin his handiwork…”

Thancred chuckles lowly. “Come, let me brush your hair,” he says, heading over to the makeshift vanity Ikael has (seemingly hastily) set up. “You have made it a nervous mess. Sit here, now.”

Ikael is—naturally—rather pretty, in Thancred's opinion. Thancred hasn’t _told_ him this, because he _knows_ , and his ego on that matter is large enough. But… perhaps he should. Sometimes.

To be quite honest, right now he outshines even Lyse—Thancred has seen her already. But, as he is an intelligent man who favours all of his body parts right where they are, he will never say that out loud. She will _know_.

“You look quite lovely yourself,” Ikael hums as Thancred runs a brush gently through his hair. It is even softer than usual, if that is possible. “I think you should probably change your bandana to… hm… a gilded eyepatch, perhaps? But other than that, you are very handsome.” He giggles.

“Please tell me you are joking about the eyepatch,” Thancred says, and Ikael laughs.

Hopefully it will be an exciting night.

~*~


	31. eye

“Oh fabled Warrior of Light,” Thancred says, “My parents were eaten by a goobbue. Can you get them back?”

“Do not be an arse.” Ikael scowls, seating him none-too-gently on the stool. “You are lucky I am here. No one else would want to deal with you.” He picks up the bottle of alchemical oil, briefly flipping it upside down on a wad of cotton before setting it back. His movements are blunt and abrupt.

“I do not have any money, but I can pay you in flowers,” Thancred continues.

“Thancred,” Ikael says shortly, and nothing more. He tips Thancred's face up with clinical gentleness, dabbing at his cheek with the wad.

“It is just a black eye.” Thancred drops his overly cheerful tone. He tries to keep himself from flinching when whatever oil Ikael is applying burns into the scratchy cuts on his skin.

“They were wearing studded knuckles,” Ikael replies. “You are lucky you were bothering someone who had neither the skill nor the strength to fracture your cheekbone.”

“‘Bothering someone?’” Thancred's voice is light, but sarcastic. “My dear Ikael, you act as if you were there.”

“Is that not how it goes?” Ikael’s jaw has a stubborn jut to it. “Go up to a gaggle of pretty people—usually female—say some half-arsed lines, steal their hearts, and break them without a second thought? Although I admit I am surprised; you have not done it in quite a while. Shame; I was beginning to have hope.”

Thancred looks at him, gaze heavy, and says nothing. Ikael finishes cleaning his cuts so they will not get infected, and reaches for the thicker cream that is used for bruises.

“Tell me, then,” he says as he dabs at Thancred's eye, “What happened. Since you are glaring at me so. If I were a lesser man, I might be scared of you, Thancred Waters.”

Thancred closes his eyes as Ikael’s forefinger brushes the delicate skin of his eyelid. He waits to open them again before he says, “I was not harassing them.”

“No?” Ikael raises an eyebrow. “What earned you such… _violent_ rebuttal, then?”

Thancred looks at him, waiting until Ikael drops his hand and crosses his arms. Then he reaches up, and slowly unties the cloth hiding his left eye.

He stares at Ikael, for a long moment. It is _because_ he is staring that he can see his features slacken in realization, can see the surprise creep into his gaze, quickly followed by righteous anger. Thancred huffs out a humourless chuckle.

“There it is,” he says. “My supposed ‘harassment.’”

Ikael closes his eyes. “I am sorry,” he says lowly. He opens them. “I should not have assumed the worst of you. You have more honour than that, at least now.”

“Everyone makes mistakes,” Thancred says in an equally low voice. It is flattened.

Ikael shakes his head. “I should _not_ have,” he repeats. “I know you better than that.” He bows a little. “My apologies,” he says.

Thancred considers him silently, then sighs, nearly inaudible. “Accepted,” he says. “Now I request that you keep me company instead of storming off to punch some noble brat in the face.”

“In return?” Ikael quirks an eyebrow, hopping up onto a nearby stool. “Alright.”

Thancred shakes his head, and moves to a crate, patting the space next to him.

“You have to do what I say,” he says, “As reparation for being mean to me.”

“Oh, you _baby_ ,” Ikael smiles, but shifts over to join him. Thancred waits a beat, then tugs him in close, leaning his head against Ikael’s shoulder.

“Do you think—” he begins after a moment.

“You are beautiful,” Ikael returns without pause. “Inside and out. Fuck whoever says otherwise.”

Thancred cannot help the small snort that escapes him. “I do not think that would aid my goal, nor would it change their mind,” he says, feeling a smile tug unbidden at his lips. Ikael wheezes a little in surprise, then laughs.

Thancred closes his eyes, leeching Ikael’s good humour and presence. He is glad he can have this.

Perhaps he even deserves to.

~*~


	32. childish

“Ikael—” Thancred says, and Ikael _screams_ at him.

“ _No!_ ” he yells, fury boiling in his blood, “I do not _want_ it! _Gods_ , Thancred—you are no better than the rest of them! You cannot just… just _come in here_ whenever you want and _demand_ things of me! It was too _much_ , tonight! I just want a fucking _break_.”

“Do not yell at me.” Thancred's eyes narrow. His voice is cool. “I have done nothing to you; I am here for support. I do not deserve your ire.”

“I don’t want your _support_.” Ikael _growls_ at him, baring his teeth. “I want to be left alone! Can’t you get that? Can’t one person fucking get that? Get out of my godsdamned room!”

“You are being childish!” Thancred scolds, voice beginning to rise as well. “If you wish me to leave, then _fine_ , but—”

“ _I’m not a fucking child!_ ” Ikael snarls, fists clenched. “I-I’m not—Just because I do things, sometimes, or—or _touch_ things, doesn’t mean I am an _infant_! I can take care of my own fucking self!”

Thancred rolls his eyes. “Yes, because throwing temper tantrums is _so_ mat—”

“It’s not a _temper tantrum_!” Ikael is shouting _loudly_ , now, eyes flashing. “I’m not a fucking—I thought you— _gods!_ Didn’t you—I don’t want _you_ here, and I don’t want your,” he gesticulates angrily at the tray in Thancred's hands, “ _drinks_ , and I don’t want your fucking _toys!_ ” He stalks over to his bed and snatches the stuffed chocobo from underneath the covers. “I do not _want_ your useless fucking present! I never wanted it! Why did you _give_ it to me?!”

He hurls it at Thancred's chest before he knows what he is doing, and—

There is the sound of shattered ceramic as the tray hits the ground and the mugs splinter into a million sharp shards. Hot brown cocoa spills out onto Ikael’s floor in a rapidly growing puddle.

He stares at it, breath hitching.

Thancred stands there quietly, and for a brief, arduous moment, both of them are silent.

Thancred's fingers clench around the stuffed chocobo he has caught. His jaw works as he stares at the mess on the floor.

Then he looks up at Ikael. His eyes are _cold_. “You know what?” he snaps, “You are right. I do not have to do _anything_ for you.” He starts to move.

“Get _out_!” Ikael screeches, but Thancred is already reaching for the door handle. “Get out of my room, and _stay_ —”

The door slams.

Ikael stays there for a moment, his breathing already shaky. Then it gets shakier, and his vision gets blurry, and he brings up his fingers to cover his face as he starts to cry.

~*~

It does not take him long to feel absolutely _terrible_ , guilt clawing at him and rending his heart. He… he needs to apologize; he has been _horrid_ to Thancred, and he does not know if he will be forgiven but it does not _matter_. He… needs to say _sorry_ …

Thancred goes to him first. Of course he does; he is more mature than Ikael in nearly every respect, and Ikael is useless and pitiful sitting on his bed with his head in his knees, tail wrapped around himself, rocking back and forth. Thancred does not pause to knock before entering; he simply comes in, shutting the door behind himself. Then—stops.

“You didn’t clean up,” he says.

Ikael does not reply, but his ears swivel in Thancred's direction, and he breathes slower, so as to listen to him better.  

Thancred sighs. “Fine,” he says, and Ikael hears him start to move around.

Ikael croaks out, “No.”

Thancred stops moving. Says nothing for a moment. Then, “Ikael…”

“No,” Ikael repeats. “I… I’ll mop it up. It is my mess.”

Once again, silence. Then there is more movement, and the weight of someone sitting down on the bed.

Thancred says, “I am still… not happy. About earlier.”

His voice is stiff. Ikael nods, sniffling as quietly as he can.

“I need to say sorry,” he mumbles wetly, after Thancred still has not replied. He scrubs his eye on his kneecap.

He thinks Thancred is going to stay silent, but after a beat he says, “Yes.”

“I-I’m sorry,” Ikael says, voice thick. “I… said horrible things to you and I should not have. Y-you… are very important to m-me and…” His vision is blurring again, and he swallows down the sob that is rising in his throat, “I sh-should not have… I… sh-shouldn’t…”

Thancred makes a breathing noise, as if he is about to speak, and Ikael shakes his head.

“N-no,” he interrupts, talking through the lump in his chest. “You do… a l-lot for me and you do not have to. You know this and y-you… do it anyway. You do not deserve to be,” another sniffle, because his nose is running, “treated like that. I-I am so _s-sorry_.”

Ikael feels a hand on his shoulder, and shakes it off. “You… you can l-leave. I have to d-deal with some things on my own. I’m s-sorry.”

Thancred removes his hand, then sighs. “Fine,” he says. “But if you are determined to suffer alone, then at least accept an inanimate friend?”

Something is being placed gently into the cradle of Ikael’s chest. He blinks, nonplussed, and unfolds a little to reach down and feel—

He starts crying again, at full force. His fists clenches around the small stuffed chocobo as tightly as it can, and he presses it to his chest.

“I thought, since you kept it in your bed,” Thancred offers, “That you did not… _truly_ hate it as much as you said you did. On the rare circumstance that you were simply hurling it at me to… _express_ yourself and not to…”

Ikael _sobs_. This time, when Thancred touches him, he does not shrug it off.

“I-I’m s- _sorry_ ,” he blubbers, and Thancred shushes him in what is a familiar sound by now, wrapping himself around him.

“I know, Ikael,” he says softly.

“I’m a-a… _horrible_ friend,” Ikael whimpers.

“You are not too bad,” Thancred says. “Everybody has a breaking point, hm? To be quite honest, I am surprised you had not reached yours sooner.”

Ikael _has_. But not… not around anyone.

“Here—do not cry.” A hand reaching again, and then Thancred is taking the chocobo gently from his clutching fingers, dancing it up in front of him.

“I am here for you whenever you need me, Ikael,” he says, wiggling it as if it is talking. Ikael watches, eyes peeking out from where he has tucked his head. “‘Even if you are a little mean sometimes, that is okay! Buying me was a good decision and you should never, ever, throw me at Thancred again. I bruised a wing!’”

Ikael laughs through his tears, then sobs again. He hugs Thancred tightly.

“I do not deserve you,” he mumbles.

“Perhaps not right now,” Thancred says. “Or perhaps it is I who does not deserve you, sometimes. But who is keeping track, other than us? In other words; who cares?”

“I c-care,” Ikael says. “I do not wish to tip the scales.”

“Moments like these,” Thancred says, “Where you need this? Where all I have to do is provide some comfort, say a few truths? That is _your_ scale, Ikael. I have my own.”

Ikael blinks at him through his tears, looking up. “What is it?” he asks in a small voice.

Thancred simply smiles.

~*~

“Oh, and I am not cleaning up the hot cocoa,” he adds five minutes later.

Ikael snuggles closer into his chest. “Okay,” he says contentedly, and it is.


	33. silence

Thancred can do _nothing_ here.

These people have neither want nor need of him. There are dozens of adventurers, even at this hour, wandering around, running banal errands, piling cartloads of tomestones onto Rowena’s people. Thancred is… useless.

He breaks up a fight to feel like he is making at least a small difference. He is given an irritated, haughty huff and a coin flicked at his chest in return. He sees two children playing together and gently asks why they are not asleep, and they giggle at him before running off, hand in hand. Thancred stares after them with a small ache in his chest.

He walks around in the shadows, keeping an ear and an eye out for trouble. It is cold and lonely outside tonight, and even the stars seem frigidly distant, high and unreachable. Thancred pulls his collar up.

He scouts the back end of a tavern, because he knows that things sometimes happen near them, and it is better to have a silent hand of help than none at all. He is rounding the corner when he hears a muffled thud, followed by a shuffling noise and giggling.

He looks up. There is… Ikael, steadying himself against the outside wall. Thancred loosens his grip on his dagger.

He begins to say, “What are you—” but he is interrupted by Ikael’s head shooting up and him calling, “ _Thancred!_ ” Then he is charging forward, and before Thancred knows what is happening, he is being tackle-hugged by a clingy, happy, sweet-smelling, most likely quite tipsy miqo’te.

“I missed you so… _much_!” Ikael declares happily, wiggling with his entire body. He giggles.

Thancred huffs out a chuckle, patting him on the head. “Hello, Ikael,” he says, forcing a smile to stretch across his teeth.

Ikael shakes his head at him, tapping him on the nose. “Don’t be sad, Thancred,” he says, and he cannot be _too_ drunk, because he is saying Thancred's name correctly.

“I _love_ you,” he sing-songs.

… Alright. He’s definitely not sober.

Ikael makes a happy noise and snuggles contentedly into Thancred's shoulder. His tail wags, and Thancred's gaze sways with its brown tip.

“Ikael,” he says slowly, and Ikael tightens his grip around him, flicking his ears.

“Mmhm?”

“I should put you away,” Thancred tells him, “Before you get into trouble and I am inevitably blamed.”

“You didn’t do anything, Thancred!” Ikael says directly into his coat, voice muffled. “You’re perrrfect.” He giggles again.

“I sincerely hope that wasn’t a pun,” Thancred says.

Ikael coos at him, and Thancred sighs, shifting him so that he can at least walk. “Do you mind keeping me company?” he asks as he leads them away from the tavern. There is naught he can do with Ikael like this, and he does not feel comfortable simply leaving him.

Ikael looks up to smile at him adoringly, and Thancred, despite himself, feels himself soften somewhat.

“Is that a yes?” he murmurs when Ikael simply makes another indeterminate noise.

“Shh,” Ikael tells him, leaning his head against his shoulder. “No talking.”

“Alright then,” Thancred says in a quiet voice, and smiles a little when that earns him a soft pat on the cheek.

Ikael seems to have an idea of where they are going; he tugs them over to a small stone shack, then proceeds to let go of Thancred, leap, and attempt to haul himself up. After Thancred picks up his stomach from where it has dropped somewhere on the ground at his feet, he follows, hovering close enough to Ikael to catch him should he fall.

He does not, thankfully. On the roof of the shack is—Thancred blinks. A small blanket, kept in place with a few rocks. Ikael sits cross-legged on top, beckoning to him.

“It’s pretty,” he tells Thancred when he settles down next to him. He is pointing up… at the stars? He looks back at Thancred when he does not respond, and beams.

“It is,” Thancred says softly, so as not to get another shushing, and Ikael wriggles against him, wrapping his tail around his waist.

He touches Thancred’s arm, drags his finger along his sleeve, then flips his wrist and opens his palm. In it lies a small, lightly-coloured, pebble-like object, a little less than an ilm in diameter.

Thancred makes a surprised noise, taking it. It is… a type of candy unique to Limsa that Thancred may or may not be rather fond of. How had Ikael…?

“You told me you liked these so much you used to steal a couple every time you passed the sweets cart that sold them,” Ikael says, and suddenly his words are a lot less slurred. “I bought you some. I will give them to you… when I feel like it. When you need a little sweetness.”

He sounds like he is smiling. He wraps an arm around Thancred's shoulders, squeezing.

“I…” Thancred's throat feels suspiciously tight. He clears it quietly, blinking.

“You deserve the most,” Ikael says sincerely, “Of all I can give to you. I only hope that you see that one day.”

Thancred swallows. He does not say anything.

They sit, wordless, until some time has passed. Then Ikael says, “Sing me a song? Of the stars.”

“Will I get another candy if I do?” Thancred asks through a smile.

Ikael hums. “You will get a _song_ ,” he says.

Thancred thinks. Of bright green eyes and a burning heart. Of _Minfilia_ , somewhere far away, a blessing to a cursed world. Of silence.

He sings.

~*~


	34. company

Thancred double-checked the slip of paper he had been given, and steeled himself. Yes, this was the correct address. Yes, Thancred was cold and soaked to the bone, and he needed shelter. No, he did not actually want to go in.

He closed his eyes.

Opened them.

Grit his teeth. And knocked.

He huffed out a harsh breath of air as he waited, shivering. Twelve help him if… _that one_ answered the door. Thancred dealt with enough bullshit as it was.

Thankfully, that was not the case. It was a tall, golden-horned Au Ra that greeted him when the door clicked open, and Thancred sent a quick prayer of thanks to Hydaelyn for his good fortune.

“If you’re selling anything,” said the Au Ra, “We do not want it, and you may leave.”

Thancred bit back a groan. Of _course_.

“Simeon,” he forced himself to say, civilly enough, “My name is Thancred. I’m a friend of—”

“Oh, it’s you!” Simeon blinked at him, leaning against the door frame. “You’re Ikael’s comrade, aren’t you? The one with the child army. Didn’t expect to see you here, I’ll admit.”

Child army? What—

“I… am,” Thancred replied. “And I hate to impose on you, but I must beg of you to perhaps lend me shelter for a few bells, until the rain abates. Ikael gave me… your address, in case I ever had need of it, and you were in the area. I understand if you wish to turn me away, however.”

Technically, Ikael owned the apartment and had gifted it to his retainers for use (and thus Thancred could visit “absolutely whenever he wanted to”), but Thancred was in no position to argue specifics. The best he could hope for was to stay until the rain beating harshly against the windows of the building slowed to a drizzle, perhaps.

“Hmph! I say,” Simeon cocked his head, “It wasn’t very kind of you to not inform us all those months back when Ikael did, in fact, turn up alive! We were halfway to Kugane by the time we finally heard the news. It was a huge mess; I think he even laughed at us! He tried to cover it up immediately, of course—you know how he is—but I was offended! I am no laughing matter, although Gaill probably is.”

“Dear gods,” Thancred muttered to himself. Perhaps he should have simply found a large leaf or something to hide underneath until it the rain stopped.

“Well, what are you waiting for, then? Come in. I am sure Ikael would have our hides if we turned down a friend of his, even one involved with such things as you yourself are…”

Simeon’s voice—thankfully—faded as he walked further into the apartment. Thancred caught the door with a grunt, and followed, looking around. The walls were of a soft honeyed wood, and the floorboards were dark and cherry-red where they were not covered by various rugs and paraphernalia. There was what appeared to be some fishing gear scattered about (mostly next to the fireplace, which did not seem like a good idea). At the far end of the room was a kitchenette, with a small oven. There were a few doors pressed to the walls, one of which Simeon disappeared through. Bedrooms, perhaps? Ikael must have pulled some strings to get a multi-roomed apartment.

Thancred hovered around awkwardly, pressing his hands into his arms to drain the water from his sleeves. Could he sit down? He had no wish to get the furniture wet…

“I’ve called Ikael,” Simeon announced, appearing once again. “He seemed rather alarmed—I am sure he’ll be here at any minute. Gaill is out, by the way; probably fighting something nasty in the name of adventure. I shall retire to my room, then—make sure you open the door when you hear a knock!”

And with a short wave, he left once more. Thancred heard a click as the door latched.

“Great,” he muttered.

Thankfully, Ikael’s ability to worry and fuss was matched by none, and it was not too long before the front door rattled, and quickly unlocked.

“Thancred!” Ikael called as soon as he saw him. He opened his umbrella—now _that_ was a good idea—and set it down near the door before scrambling over to Thancred with his arms outstretched, a worried frown marring his brow.

“Ikael,” Thancred returned, nodding at him. He tried to stop shivering, but he did not think it worked, because the expression of concern on Ikael’s face only deepened.

“You are soaked to the bone, poor thing,” Ikael murmured, pressing his hands into Thancred's sleeves. The fabric made a wet squelching noise, and Ikael tutted at it.

“I’ll go get some nice dry clothes and a towel, okay?” he said, squeezing Thancred's shoulders. “ _Oh_ , you should have come earlier, Thancred! What if you have caught cold? We cannot have that.”

“No; I do not think I could handle _that_ amount of mothering,” Thancred replied, and Ikael must have been very worried indeed, because he only made his foolish little cooing noise—the one that made Thancred feel like a child—and tottered off with an agitated little flick to his tail.

Thancred sighed, beginning to take his boots off. There was no point in prolonging the inevitable.

Ikael came back with not one, but two large, fluffy towels, as well as perhaps five or so shirts and the rest of someone’s entire wardrobe.

“You go dry off and change in the bathroom,” Ikael said, ushering Thancred into the room leading off from the far right of the suite. “Pick what you like. And I’ll make us some tea, okay? Off you go now.”

“Whose clothing is this?” Thancred asked before Ikael could close the door.

“Oh—Gaill’s,” Ikael said easily, waving a hand, and Thancred's answering growl probably went unheard due to the door shutting in his face.

Gaill’s clothing was, unfortunately, remarkably well-fitted to Thancred. Odd; Thancred would have thought that it would have been somewhat looser. Ah well; the gods only knew how that man preferred to dress.

 When he came out of the bathroom, Ikael was standing at the kitchenette, pouring tea into two rather large mugs. His ears swivelled to Thancred, and he called without looking, “I’ll just be a second, yeah? Go sit by the fire.”

Thancred did, easing himself into the nearby rocking chair and closing his eyes as he rocked softly. He no longer had any magicks to preserve his youth, and to be quite honest, sometimes he felt rather more weary than he should. Perhaps he should ask Y'shtola about a similar enchantment that would not have any negative side-affects on him…

“Tired?” said a soft voice, and Thancred opened his eyes to see Ikael holding a mug out to him with a warm smile. He took it, nodding his thanks, and Ikael made a happy little noise before seating himself across from him.

“Do you wish to stay for the night?” Ikael asked. “I do not have a room here, but you may use Gaill’s.”

“Ah…” said Thancred.

Ikael laughed a little. “Or we can gather blankets and cozy up out here by the fire,” he suggested in an amused voice.

“That sounds… rather more lovely than camping outside, actually,” Thancred admitted. Ikael smiled, and Thancred found himself easily returning the expression, comfortable as he rocked back and forth.

They finished their tea in companionable silence, and then started talking quietly, about everything and nothing at all. It was an easy conversation; light and amicable.

Thancred was content.

~*~


	35. cell

“Thancred, you _came_ for me!” Ikael breathes joyously, as if he had expected to be completely left alone and abandoned.

He looks happy--smiling even, but the fingers that are reaching out towards Thancred from between iron bars are smudged and bloody, the face that is beaming at him is dirty and bruised at minimum, and somehow Thancred cannot find it in himself to reflect his good mood.

Thancred is crouching down low, squatting nearly on the ground. He has to in order to see Ikael; his cell is entirely underground, and from what Thancred can tell, the small barred window they are seeing each other through is Ikael’s only source of light.

“Did you spend more time inside this oubliette, or fighting to get to it?” Thancred asks sarcastically. He cannot help the bite to his voice; if Ikael has been starved or injured in here for too long…

“I have only been here for a couple of days,” Ikael says, pressing his face to the bars to see Thancred better. His usually soft hair is dirty and matted, but his eyes are bright. “Most of the fighting was before that; they haven’t given me trouble since.”

“Have they fed you?” Thancred asks.

Ikael’s hum of hesitation is answer enough. Thancred growls in irritation, eyes narrowing. “ _Ikael_ …”

“Actually, it is not an oubliette.” Ikael’s ears perk up as he strives for sudden lexical perfection. “Oubliettes are the little well ones. With the hole at the top, you know?”

“Yes, because I am here to argue semantics, not rescue you,” Thancred says with an eye roll. “Alright; hang tight. Not too tight—you might catch something off the mold on these bars. But tight enough.”

“Thancred,” Ikael calls as Thancred begins to straighten up. Thancred winces and crouches back down.

“Hm?”

“Do… you have any food?” Ikael asks, small and hopeful.

Thancred swallows down the sudden flash in his chest. “No,” he replies gruffly, “But that is the first thing we will get when you are out, okay? I… promise.”

“Okay,” Ikael repeats, and draws back into the darkness, until even the whites of his eyes are no longer reflecting light.

 Thancred rolls his shoulders and gets up, checking his knives. Then, with a huff, he steps into the shadows, and begins.

~*~

There are two guards standing directly outside Ikael’s cell. It is an extraneous effort for a small dungeon like this; and also how Thancred knows that it is, in fact, Ikael’s cell. Additionally, he has been… _directed_ this way by previously alive persons of the area.

The guards are speaking to themselves. Thancred crouches low behind a barrel, and keeps quiet.

“No, can’t get much off it. You’ve seen it—too skinny.”

“Aye, but if ‘e puffs up? Gets all scared, it’ll be more.”

“You reckon we can scare him? Didn’t seem to be easily daunted, but I’m sure if we have at him for long enough, he’ll break. They all do.”

They laugh. Thancred says, “That’s not how fur works,” and kills them with a single flick of his wrist.

He unbars Ikael’s cell door, and then works on unlocking it patiently, forcing his hands to remain slow and steady despite the irritation coiling low in his stomach. He does not wish to botch the lock, and he knows what he is doing—he is trained. Surely enough, soon there are three rapid clicks, and the hinge loosens.

Thancred pushes open the door with a low grunt—it is quite heavy—and sighs in relief when the light reveals a grimy, curled-up miqo’te, one forearm raised across his eyes. Thancred is at the right cell, after all.

He kneels down in front of Ikael, taking his arm and gently pulling it away. “Let’s go,” he says.

Ikael squints at him, flinching away from the light, and Thancred hesitates before quickly untying his bandana and handing it to him.

“If you are fine with not seeing very much, then use this,” he says. “And do not worry about running into anyone. The way is quite clear, I assure you,” he adds sardonically.

Ikael ties the bandana around his eyes with shaking hands, and then offers Thancred's chin a beatific smile. Thancred finds himself subconsciously returning it to a degree—a small twitch of his lips that Ikael can most likely not even see.

He offers Ikael support by holding on to his forearms gently, and Ikael latches on tightly, using Thancred to haul himself up. His legs are trembling somewhat when he stands, but he seems to be able to mostly walk under his own power. Still. Thancred can help.

“Do you have water?” is the first thing Ikael says.

Thancred swings his waterskin around. “They did not even give you _water_?” he demands, opening it up for Ikael to drink from and pressing it into his hand. “Slowly,” he instructs.

Ikael obeys, obediently only taking a few sips at a time. “They did,” he says finally, wiping his mouth and holding the waterskin out for Thancred to take back, “But not too much. I was thirsty.”

“Mm.” Thancred replies, lips pressing together flatly. Ikael’s voice is only a bit scratchy, but if they had planned on giving him the bare minimum to survive, it could have been _weeks_ before he would have been fed.

“Come, come. Let us go find a food stand before you brood the whole establishment down, yeah?” Ikael says, swaying into him playfully. “I am hungry! And you _said_ you’d buy me food.”

“Silly Thancred, not being happy about you very much falling into the wrong side of a risky plan,” Thancred grumbles. “Or thinking that it is only a matter of time before the plan is ‘primal’ and the risk is ‘death.’”

“Oh, hush, you,” Ikael laughs a little. “After all; if I die, I’ll be dead! And so I won’t care. Problem self-solved.”

Thancred snorts—he cannot help it, at the ridiculousness of that statement. “Very well, then,” he grunts in amusement, “Your reasoning is flawless, as always, and I am a fool to think otherwise. Now let’s get out of here.”

He cannot ignore the way Ikael limps as he walks, nor the hitch to his stride, nor the dirt underneath his fingernails, but he can help with it all, given a little time. At the very least, it is not severe.

“Let’s go!” Ikael agrees, cheerfully enough, and they depart.

~*~


	36. Chapter 36

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> oh look an update! wow-

‘ thanced I need to talk to you,” said ikea

‘oh ok about what.” thancred said back while stopping whatever he was doing that i cant be bothered to think about right now

“about.... something,” ikale said sulkingly, his emerald orbs staring at the ground that they were standing on because he was reluctant to say words.

“ at least your not crying, “ said thancred back again and then laughed.

“wow that really hurt my feelings,” said kiael . ‘Im not sure i want to talk to you now”

“babe no come back “ said thancred.

“omg did you just call me babe” said ikal wondrously

“what no i did not.” said thancred back once more.

“you did.” said ikale.

“ok can you guys stop messing around,” said yishtola. ‘ this conversation is pointless’

“your pointless,” said thancred.

“okay i think you guys need to discuss your feelings and things.” said y’shtoia whilst crossing her arms and scowling at both of them with her eyes and also her eyebrows even if she couldnt see because she was blind.

“ok but he usually cries when we do that “ said thancred also crossing his arms to do what she was doing and also not look at ikale.  only partly because he didnt want him to cry also.

‘i dont cry _that_ much’ said ikale, crying.

“yes you do your a crybaby and whiny” said thancred laughing.

ikeal wiped his snot (gross) and eyeballs with his hand, but not with the same hand because thats gross. actually he got a tissue. retcon

“ok so what did you want to talk to me about’ said thancred impatiently a little because they hadn’t started to talk really yet and he wanted to know because he was curious and also impatient.

‘ thancrd im in love with you,’ said ikal

‘what the fuck’ said thancred.

‘omg’ said ikel and started to crying again.

‘no babe dont cry” said thancred

“did you just call me babe again” said ikkeal who stopped crying for a second or three to ask that question and then started back again.

“no’ said thancred.

“you both have terrible taste.’ said yishtola crossing her arms . they were already crossed but she did it again. oops.

“i love you to,’ said thancred while laughing and crying also.

‘whose the crybaby now’ said yishtola whilst crossing her arms

“i like you your so hot and sexy’ said ikaell to thancred but not yishtola because he doesn’t like yisthola. hes gay

“what about my personality’ said thancred with his word mouth.

‘ i dont think you have one of those.’ said ikea

just then a primal burst in andd then killed all of them but ikel because hes the warrior of light. then they all died both thancred and yisthola but not ikel again. then various dead people came back to life and ikeal finally started his harem that he wanted since his first christmas. then he resurrected thancred and they had sex and also adopted some freakish kid with long blue hair and eyes who killed chocobos every now and again but they didn’t question it. then ikale resurrected yishtola because he felt bad for leaving her dead for all of those years. then they

the edn

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> happy April Fool's day guys ;)


	37. treasure hunt

“This is ridiculous.” Alphinaud pulls at his sleeves somewhat nervously, straightening the cuffs.

“Hm. And who was it that dragged me into _his_ little treasure hunt, yeah?” Ikael glances up from his map to shoot Alphinaud a smile, softening his words. This is all in good fun, really, and hey, they might actually get something out of this one.

… Doubtful, but not _impossible_.

“Right; of course.” Alphinaud sighs, appropriately admonished. “My apologies for that again, if it truly ails you. I would have aided you more, had I—”

“Shh.” Ikael reaches out without looking to ruffle his hair. “Pointlessly belated apologies later. Help me look for this first.”

“Oh—o-of course,” Alphinaud stutters, then clears his throat neatly. Ikael once again reaches out, this time to step closer and tug him into a brief, one-armed hug.

“Okay, the _map_ … says... that the next clue is near the ‘Jewel of the North’… Any idea what that could mean?”

“Ah…” Alphinaud licks his lips. “If you are _truly_ determined to go on this ridiculous spring candy hunt—”

“I am.”

“—then I _suppose_ that could be… the giant egg we passed earlier?”

“Oh?” Ikael glances up to peer at him curiously. “What makes you say that?”

“It said ‘Jewel of the North’ on it,” says Alphinaud.

“Hm.” Ikael taps his chin. “You would think I’d notice that, yeah?”

“You would think,” Alphinaud agrees.

Ikael squints at him. “There something you’re trying to say, Alphy?”

“Only that you were… _distracted_ by our tour guide, and I was very much paying attention to my surroundings, as you taught me.”

“Oh ho, trying to surpass the master, hm?” Ikael crosses his arms. “And in my defense, that tour guide was rather… tall, yeah?”

Alphinaud tries his best to not read into any implications in that sentence. His _best_. It is not quite enough. “He was, I suppose. Roegadyn tend to be tall; ‘tis no remarkable attribute.”

“I think we have different definitions of ‘remarkable,’” Ikael comments with a small smirk, gaze going a little out of focus.

“I am _sure_ ,” Alphinaud asserts before this can get out of hand. Ikael laughs at him for a good twenty seconds. At least.

“Alright, alright.” Ikael chuckles a bit as he looks back at his map. “So where was this egg again? Lead the way, oh illustrious pupil…”

He starts giggling again, and Alphinaud sighs, turning around and starting the long trek back to where they had been half a bell ago. This is going to be a long day.

~*~


	38. goodnight

“You and Ikael had a fight,” Y'shtola says to empty air.

Thancred lets out a sigh through clenched teeth, closing his eyes briefly before reopening them. “That _does_ happen sometimes,” he says, not a little snidely.

“Hm.” Y'shtola makes a movement in his periphery. Thancred shakes his head, annoyed, and stalks away.

~*~

He is not in the best mood—somewhat drained, even—and would like nothing more to just collapse on his bed and sleep it off. Or perhaps he can do things the Warrior of Light way and take his frustration out on a training dummy.

He opens his bedroom door, glancing into the room, and stares at the bed.

He closes the door.

There is a familiar, curled-up shape napping on his covers, dark and compact. He must have only just fallen asleep, then, if he is—Thancred shakes any fond thoughts out of his head.

“Ikael,” he says, “Get off.”

He watches as Ikael stirs at the sound of his voice, as his ears twitch and he freezes for a moment before uncurling himself and slowly sitting up. He slides off the bed, gaze directed firmly towards the ground.

Thancred's eyes follow him as he himself takes off his boots and walks towards his bed. He glances at the drooping ears and the tail curled between Ikael’s legs—hm, he has rarely seen it like that—then sits down.

He waits until Ikael is nearly at the door before he says, “Ikael.”

Ikael pauses with his hand raised towards the handle. Thancred can tell he is caught between the urge to run away and escape, or stay, but eventually he drops his hand and turns around halfway. He stays silent, still staring at the ground.

Thancred waits a moment, then grunts and crawls underneath the covers. He shimmies to the wall, facing it, and lifts the blankets behind him.

“Don’t hog the covers,” he says.

He can sense Ikael’s hesitation as he draws whatever ridiculous conclusion that he is bound by pessimism and anxiousness to draw, and then there are the small noises of him slowly shuffling towards the bed.

Ikael gets underneath the covers, movements halted, and Thancred barely feels a tug as he proceeds to lay down as close to the edge as possible, no doubt determined to take up as little space as he can. Thancred feels something softly touch his leg, and then immediately draw back as if he is on fire. Ikael shifts behind him.

Thancred lets a few minutes tick by, and then sighs, opening his eyes. He turns around, and Ikael is—looking at him—he stops as soon as they make eye contact, darting his gaze down.

“Ikael,” Thancred says, sighing once more. He reaches out to brush Ikael’s face with his fingertips. Ikael immediately starts to cry.

Thancred's eyelids lower. “… It is alright,” he says after a moment, and Ikael does not stop. His shoulders begin to tremble.

Thancred closes his eyes. “I am sorry, Ikael. You are sorry. We are both too weary for any fickle disagreements,” he says, and moves forward to wrap his arms around him. Ikael’s entire body shakes as he sobs into the embrace, shuffling closer.

“Shh,” Thancred says quietly, a familiar reassurance. Not in its meaning, but in its sound. Ikael calms eventually, and does not retreat.

“Goodnight,” Thancred says to the moon shining down on them from outside, and Ikael makes a soft noise in return as they both begin to fall asleep.

~*~


	39. minorly wronged

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> set somewhat as a continuation of chapter 35, "cell"

“’s fine, Thancred,” Ikael mumbles, wiggling until he is lying nearly face-down on his pillow.

Thancred's lips press together briefly. “No, it is not fine. We are hardly short on staff or resources, and she could have given you what you wanted without any trouble. Besides; you are the Warrior of Light. If anyone should be accommodated, it is you.”

“Mm.” Ikael’s tail shifts underneath the blankets as he thumps it lazily. “Don’t say that. ’s not good.”

Thancred sighs, sitting down on the bed. “As much as you dislike admitting it, ’tis true,” he says. “You have done much for these people, Ikael. The least you deserve is a nicer _blanket_ , of all things.”

“I think… you are overreacting,” Ikael mumbles into his pillow.

Thancred looks at him. He reaches down to take Ikael’s hand—bandaged, clean now, fingers limp and curled slightly—and brushes his thumb over it. It squeezes his own hand weakly, and then Ikael is tugging it back, wiggling more as he gets comfortable.

“’m sleep, ‘kay?” Ikael murmurs. “G’night, Thancred.”

It is mid-afternoon. Thancred sighs. “Take as much rest as you have to; Twelve knows you need it. Call one of us if you need anything.”

He leaves Ikael alone to sleep. It has been barely a day since Thancred has half-carried him from the dungeon, and while Ikael is cleaned up and filled with a lot more food now, they are all still worried. Ikael’s cheerfulness has seemingly remained intact, but his body is weak from injury and hunger, and he needs attention before he can run off on his own again.

“How is he?” Y'shtola asks as Thancred carefully closes the door. She is leaning against the wall.

“Sleepy. Unbothered,” Thancred replies.

“Hm.” An ear flicks.

“He likes the blanket you brought him.”

“Of course he does.” Y'shtola lifts her head, but her tail sways a bit at that. She is pleased with the news. “I, at least, can accommodate people’s _simplest_ demands.”

“He could not sleep, once,” Thancred says, “Because the texture of his blanket was bothering him.”

“You are saying?”

“He is exhausted. And he could not sleep.”

Her mouth tightens. “He can sleep now,” she says, half a question. Thancred nods.

“Good.” Y'shtola turns to leave in one primly swift movement.

Thancred glances back at Ikael’s door before following her.

~*~


	40. bread rolls

“Eight!” Alisaie says, a little shrilly. “He said eight!”

“He said _sixteen_ ,” Alphinaud corrects from beside her left elbow. She turns her head to glare at him. “The dough is too big to simply make eight.”

“Eight,” Alisaie says, “ _Each._ You imbecile.”

Ikael, nearly finished with making his glaze, glances over at them. He eyes Alphinaud’s tiny clumps of dough, neatly distributed into sixteen, and then Alisaie’s; slightly uneven, but the correct size.

He makes a thoughtful “Ahh,” noise. They both immediately look at him.

“I am right, am I not?” Alphinaud asks. Alisaie harrumphs and keeps molding her dough.

“You are both right,” Ikael assures, thinking that he might need to fetch a smaller brush for the glazing. “I am sure they can be eaten at whatever size is desired. And the dough looks quite smooth—good job, both of you!” He smiles.

He finishes the glaze as they try and decipher his meaning, and washes his hands while they squint at each other competitively behind his back or whatnot.

“I am sure the rolls will be excellent,” he says. “Three-quarters of a bell more for them to rise—” A little less than that, actually, but that is neither here nor there, “—And we can put them in the oven! The glaze can sit during that time—it will mix better.”

Alphinaud and Alisaie mutter at each other, but seem to glow from the praise, and wash their hands. Ikael wets a cloth, wrings it out, and spreads it over the rolls.

“I think I’m going to nap, yeah?” he says, wiping his hands before heading out to the seating area. “Wake me up in time?”

He is going to meditate, rather, although in a bit of an awkward position, because it will force them to stay around and keep quiet—that is; not argue.

“Of course,” Alisaie says, fetching him a couch cushion. He smiles at her—even if it is a bit firm, the thought is sweet. What a dear.

“You are lovely. Thank you.”

“Do you need a blanket?” Alphinaud asks as Ikael curls up around the cushion.

“Hm?” Ikael replies.

“He never uses a blanket,” Alisaie tells her brother.

“Sometimes he does,” Alphinaud rebuts.

“Shh,” says Ikael. They both issue soft-spoken apologies. Ikael shoves his head underneath the cushion and closes his eyes, content.

Y'shtola comes in at some point to enquire why he is sitting in an odd position with his head wedged between strange things, and is immediately shushed. Ikael feels himself smile—not a little in amusement. Y'shtola makes a neutral noise, and does not point out that he is not, in fact, asleep.

When he can hear quiet, uncertain muttering some time later, he stretches slowly, rolling his neck and squinting up at the ceiling.

“Ah—Ikael!” Alphinaud says. His hands are around a cup of tea. “Full glad am I that you are awake. Why, we were thinking that we’d have to… do whatever with the bread ourselves!”

“Gods forbid,” Ikael replies with a little laugh, and Alisaie, who has gotten up, sits back down.

“Of course waiting for you is a… better idea,” she says.

Ikael chuckles. “I’ll go put the rolls in the oven. Did Y'shtola make that?”

“She did,” Alisaie confirms, picking up what must be her cup of tea. “It is quite good—she has a taste for these things.”

“Excellent! I shall have to have some,” Ikael says. “Alphinaud. Alisaie.” He addresses both of them incorrectly, “I’ll be back in a quarter of a bell or so with bread rolls and some more snacks. Do wait up.”

And so saying, he rises neatly and walks into the kitchen.

“It is a wonder that you got away with what you just did,” Y'shtola tells him from where she is, for some reason, standing in the middle of the kitchen, serenely sipping tea.

“It teaches them self-restraint,” Ikael says as he brushes the dough with the glaze, now ready. “Are you just here for the smell?”

“Perhaps self-restraint means not asking pointless questions,” Y'shtola says in lieu of answering.

Ikael laughs. “Yes—it is nice, isn’t it? Or maybe it is your primal instinct reacting to the gaelicatnip in the glaze.”

“Perhaps self-restraint means not saying things that you incorrectly think are amusing, sometimes,” Y'shtola says in lieu of hitting him.

Ikael laughs again, longer this time, and by the time he is finished, Y'shtola is out, and they are waiting for him to return with food and smiles.

~*~


	41. the little things really add up

“—in the most _inconvenient_ of places, and times, and you sing off-key and you cannot dance and you can be _incredibly_ dense at times—”

“This really isn’t helping me feel any better,” Ikael mumbles, wiping at his eyes.

“My _point_ is,” Thancred says in a somewhat gentler voice, squeezing his arms, “That all of that does not matter, and everyone has their most minor flaws. Little parts of them that are imperfect, like so much of you. And that is alright, and does not mean anything of their worth.”

“Okay,” Ikael says into Thancred's shoulder. “S-so, how you… do that thing sometimes where you go mope and be grumpy for the rest of the day.”

Thancred chuckles lightly. “… Yes, I suppose.” He will humour him.

“And sometimes you’re a little mean and you really _glare_ when you’re annoyed, you know? It’s a drag to be around—and then of course _I_ have to go deal with your pointlessly mulish mood because no one else wants to. Although you are easily bribed out of it, I find.”

“Hm,” says Thancred, somewhat flatly.

“Gods—and you have a lovely voice, but… _timing_ , yeah? Sometimes a cat just wants to sleep.”

“ _Timing_? And the middle of the afternoon is a perfect time to nap, then?”

“When else? I’m sleeping during the night—I do not have free time then.”

“Let me rephrase—the middle of the afternoon in the sunniest spot in the building? Which some of us could be utilizing for, I do not know, reading, or something actually productive?”

“I am sure you are _very_ productive when you’re brooding in a dark and lonely corner.”

“Well at least I do not turn into a _housecat_.”

Ikael squints, then sticks his tongue out at him. Thancred stares for a moment.

He closes his eyes, and starts to chuckle, shaking his head. He sighs to himself, clapping Ikael on the back before embracing him tighter.

“You should come nap with me sometime soon,” Ikael suggests, voice slightly muffled. “It’s been a while.”

“ _No—_ I have things to do, Ikael,” Thancred says in amusement. “I cannot simply waste away bells of what would otherwise be a productive day because I am _napping_ with…”

Ikael draws back only to pout at him.

Thancred sighs, giving in perhaps too easily. “Fine,” he grumbles good-naturedly. “But you are explaining when we inevitably get yelled at.”

Ikael makes that happy noise of his, and Thancred rolls his eyes softly. “Do not coo,” he says.

Ikael coos.

~*~


	42. relationship

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> referring to "ikael's bf" au/verse

“And what do you think?” Ikael asks. His voice is barely audible, quiet, but so is the room around them. And even if outside, nature is living, it is breathing in time with them.

Thancred slowly lifts his wrist, brushes the air with his fingertips until his forearm is held up, straining only lightly—barely noticeable—under its own power. Ikael turns his head. He runs a finger up the skin, until it reaches Thancred's palm. Traces over the veins.

“I think,” Thancred says after a few minutes, “That I selfishly hope this will only make you happy.”

“Selfishly?” Ikael asks. He squeezes Thancred's thumb in between his fingertips, lets go.

“Yes,” Thancred replies.

Ikael’s touch lands on his pulse. It is steady, unhurried.

“It is selfish because it does not wish it to be whole,” Thancred says. “If a relationship is nothing but happiness, then it is shallow.”

“It,” says Ikael.

“You will have to be upset, Ikael,” Thancred tells him, letting his head fall to the side to meet Ikael’s gaze. “You will have misunderstandings, and you will be upset before they are resolved. It is the way of things. In a perfect world, it would not happen.”

“You want me to have a perfect world?” Ikael asks.

“Selfish,” Thancred says, “Because I do not.”

Ikael hums. Off-tune, of course. He seems to think.

“Why?” he asks eventually.

“I want to reach for it,” Thancred says. “I want a world for you without strife, where you will not need it to be understood.”

“That sounds fairly perfect,” Ikael says.

“But at the same time,” Thancred says, “Our relationship would not mean much without its pains, would it?”

Ikael follows Thancred's skin with his gaze until it meets cloth. Hair. He smiles at Thancred's eye.

“You are caught in a paradox, then,” he says.

Thancred closes his eyes. He turns his face towards the ceiling once more, lowering their arms. Ikael’s hand falls loosely beside his, touching but not grasping. He does not like to grasp.

“A year ago I would not have understood what you meant.” Ikael speaks up, “But I do. And him and I have gotten past that, Thancred. Any pain will not be long-lasting.”

“Good,” says Thancred. “You talk to him, then?”

“Not like I do you,” Ikael returns. “But yes. About more than just pretty things and flowers and sex.”

“Disgusting,” says Thancred. Ikael laughs.

“Time to nap,” he declares, wiggling closer until he is using Thancred's entire torso as a pillow, somehow.

“If a bird flies through the window and defecates on me, I _will_ blame you,” Thancred tells him.

Ikael laughs; a scratchy, open sound. It is an odd noise, objectively, but warm. Thancred thinks it is perfect.

~*~


	43. thirst

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> for all of you who were waiting for something like this ;)  
> note: this is NOT canon with the rest of this verse--but more of a what-if scenario.

Ikael does not think much of the suggestion at first. It is a small, somewhat ridiculous game, perhaps childish—and childishness does not lend itself to seriousness, does it?

A new recruit to the Scions—M’vhin—offers to go first, stuttering perhaps a bit nervously. Ikael looks at him, eyes a handsome face hidden behind all that hair, and smiles.

It lands on Ikael. He fakes shock, presses a hand to his chest, and pretends to be shy about it. From Thancred's quirked eyebrow and Y'shtola’s far-away eye roll (she has distanced herself from what she has called an “immature frivolity”), he is not too convincing.

M’vhin is not a very experienced kisser, and he pulls away nearly immediately, red as flame and muttering under his breath about the _Warrior of Light_ , but it is cute and sweet, and Ikael nevertheless licks his lips afterwards. Thancred's eyebrow quirks higher.

It is Ikael’s turn. He looks around the circle—he can probably manage to skirt around the women to avoid any awkwardness—and spins. The trinket turns, turns… lands on—

Thancred.

Ikael blinks at it, struck dumb for a moment, and then laughs it off. It is _Thancred_ , after all—not anything serious. Thancred has probably kissed most everyone in this room at this point, right? That is just how he is.

Thancred's eyes are lightly amused at Ikael’s reaction, but he does not say anything in either comment or protest, merely moving forward halfway and waiting. Ikael mirrors the movement, pushing forward against the sudden odd drop in his chest. Why is he nervous? It is not as if this is going to change anything—it is just a little game between friends. And they are _good_ friends.

Still, the watchfulness of Thancred's gaze and the odd little knowing tilt to his lips are badgering Ikael, picking at his awareness. He brushes it off, and leans forward, pressing their mouths together.

He stumbles a bit, maybe, at the last moment—must have misjudged the distance—but Thancred's hand goes to his waist, steadying him. His other hand cups Ikael’s jaw, and—this is—not… what Ikael was expecting. Everything is… slow, and… strange, and—Thancred's hand feels warm and secure, fingers gently curling around Ikael’s jaw and brushing against his neck.

Ikael does not know what he is expecting of a man who is more known for the troubles he causes from his endeavors than for any actual experience, but he thinks—maybe—that he has misjudged a bit. Thancred is kissing him slowly and surely, like Ikael is a delicacy he wants to savour.

It is… far too much, and Ikael knows his face is hot when Thancred pulls away, eye slowly opening to look at him. It is warm and molten brown, and its gaze holds Ikael in place even as Thancred's fingers brush against him once more before withdrawing, taking his warmth with them.

Ikael finds himself clearing his throat, first once and then twice, and scuttles backwards as gracefully as he can manage. He feels clumsy, all of a sudden, like the thudding of his heartbeat in his body is forcing him to move like a newborn kit.

It is Thancred's turn now, probably, but Ikael needs a drink of water, and he excuses himself before getting up—with minimum difficulty—and leaving the game.

~*~

Thancred heaves a soft sigh before taking the seat next to Ikael, and Ikael glances up, clutching his empty glass. He… does not know what to say—does he bring up the kiss? Does it matter that much? Surely he is overreacting.

But…

The sound of something sliding against wood grain touches his ears, and he catches the drink with his fingertips, blinking at its contents.

“Something to raise your spirits,” Thancred says in a warm, fairly cheerful voice, and as Ikael looks up to catch his smile, he feels a hand clasp his shoulder.

The hand stays for a small eternity—Ikael is aware of every ilm of it like it is molten gold—and then it is sliding down his arm, leaving small trails of light before leaving.

“Gil for your thoughts?” Thancred says with a chuckle. Ikael finds himself unconsciously smiling back.

“I was just, ah, thinking about all the kissing earlier,” Ikael says, clicking his nails against the drink Thancred gave him. He puts his empty glass to the side.

Thancred will not judge him. Ikael hopes so, at least.

“Ah; I see.” Thancred chuckles softly. The sound is low and warm, and Ikael swallows before sliding his forefinger around the rim of the glass, feeling its shape.

He probably should not say that he wants Thancred to kiss him _again_ , or…

“I need a lay—this is getting out of hand,” he mumbles.

Thancred's eyebrows shoot up. “ _Oh?_ ” he says.

Ikael licks his lips, and then tilts his hand up, swallowing down a large gulp of what turns out to be a sweet, not overly alcoholic brew. Still—it does something for his courage.

“You’re a good kisser,” he stumbles out before he can lose his nerve, and flicks his gaze up to meet Thancred's.

And, _oh_ , Thancred's eye is pinning him down again, the same liquid brown from before fixing him in place. Ikael considers taking another, larger gulp.

“I am glad you approve,” Thancred rumbles, not mocking him at all, and Ikael cannot look away from him. This is too real, too strange—and yet, they are both talking, and they are both serious. And the silk he feels running through him is comfortable, is welcome, and when had it first appeared?

“How do you do it?” Ikael asks, and continues as Thancred tilts his head. “Kiss someone like… Make someone feel as if you treasure them? As if they are worth it? Is it… supposed to be like that?”

He sees, for a moment, an unreadable emotion flit across Thancred's face, but then that warm hand is on his arm again. And this time it lingers, squeezing gentle heat at him.

“Do all of your conquests feel like that?” Ikael questions before Thancred can answer.

Thancred is very close—when had he gotten this close? “You are not a conquest, Ikael,” he murmurs, and his voice is secret and just for them. “You are you.”

“W-well, I should not say ‘conquest,’ really,” Ikael stutters, because he is maybe floundering a bit. “That is a bit… demeaning. But still—does everyone you sleep with—”

“Sleep with?” Thancred has gotten even closer, somehow, or perhaps he has not moved at all. Ikael swallows, looks at the details of his skin as he talks. “Not everyone that gets a kiss is a lover in that sense, Ikael. Sometimes stolen kisses are all one gets.”

 _Stolen kisses_. Ikael wonders if he has stolen a kiss. “I-I-I—you are still not answering the question,” he says. “And you interru—”

“Kisses are for hearts,” Thancred murmurs, and Ikael is sure he only interrupted him again to be an arse. He would huff, but Thancred's gaze is still locking him in place, freezing his vocal chords. “So yes. You are precious, Ikael. You should be treasured.”

Ikael feels his face heat. “W-well, that’s not what I-I was…” He trails off. Thancred does not interrupt him again, damn him. “That… your facial hair is quite scratchy, you know. I do hope you shave bef—”

He snaps his mouth shut. Amusement lights up Thancred's eye.

“I try my best not to give anyone any excessive… scratchiness,” he mutters, smirking like a devil. Ikael scoffs to scold him, although the sound catches in his throat.

“I-I was just s…” Ikael’s voice flees from him. Thancred's hand is climbing to his jaw, again, and Ikael cannot speak against the fire it leaves on his skin.

“I really do hope this is where you were going with all of this dancing around,” Thancred murmurs, and that is all the warning Ikael gets before he slides their mouths together once more.

This time the kiss is deeper, longer, filled with slow molten heat—and Ikael finds himself reaching to grasp Thancred's shoulder, the back of his neck. When they pull away, they do not part, and Ikael drops his head on Thancred's shoulder as he wills his heartbeat to calm.

“Should we retire early?” Thancred inquires, casual as ever, but the _words_ —they are intimate, private. Ikael tries not to lose himself.

He manages a wordless mutter in response, and Thancred's laugh is deep and familiar, rumbling through their bodies.

~*~

 


	44. eggs

“Good morning,” Thancred says.

There are a few low grunts on the other end, and it is nearly a minute before he gets an answer.

 _“Morning,”_ Ikael pants, sounding slightly out of breath. Thancred hums, and flips his eggs.

“Am I interrupting something?” he asks.

 _“Uh—”_ There is a very dodo-like squawk, and a few more grunts. This time when Ikael responds, it is only delayed by a dozen seconds or so.

 _“Just wandered into some… claimed territory,”_ he says.

Thancred makes a considering noise. “Well, don’t die. We need to have you available to throw at primals.”

A surprised laugh. _“Arse,”_ Ikael says. He sounds like he is grinning.

“Mmhm,” Thancred replies. Ikael laughs again.

_“So why are you calling? Just to say hello?”_

“Actually, I am giving the kitchens a shot.” One of the eggs is sticking to the frying pan. Thancred worries at it with his spatula. “Woke up fancying some egg and toast.”

 _“Oh?”_ Thancred imagines Ikael’s raised eyebrow. _“You finally brave enough to try the stovetops again?”_

“What happened with yours was a fluke, I shall have you know,” Thancred says. Ikael makes an amused noise. “But I have called to ask you what to put in this omelet.”

_“You’re making an omelet?”_

Thancred is not making an omelet. He glances at his eggs, and turns the knob to cut off power to the stove.

“Yes,” he says, trying to scrape them onto a plate as quietly as possible.

 _“Hm.”_ Thancred uses Ikael’s considering pause to look for the salt and pepper. _“Well… I know you have a habit of simply adding whatever food you like into what you are making, but that doesn’t always work, yeah? You can never go wrong with cheese—unless you can’t eat it, I suppose. And I know we have green onions—I restocked them recently. How do you feel about mushrooms?”_

“Amenable to them,” Thancred says, fetching a fork.

_“Perfect! I find most people just do not give them the chance, you know? Well, slice all of that up, and maybe stir-fry the mushrooms if you wish to. Do not slice the cheese—grate it. If we have other greens or vegetables, add those to your preference.”_

“Beautiful. Thank you, Ikael,” Thancred says. He stares at his sad, crumpled eggs, and realizes he forgot the bread.

_“No problem! You know I love talking about food. And Thancred?”_

“Hm?” Should Thancred make toast _now?_ Would there be enough time? Wouldn’t the eggs cool? He does not want that _._

 _“I can hear your pitiful scraping through the linkpearl,”_ Ikael says with a smile in his voice. _“You don’t even know where the knives are, do you?”_

Thancred sighs in defeat. “… No,” he admits.

Ikael laughs lightly. The sound is warm, not mocking. _“What is the real reason you called me?”_

Thancred looks around the room. It is… empty. Everyone is out, or in the process of running some errand or other that they could complete in the time it would take Thancred to travel there.

“Bit lonely,” he says.

There is silence for a few seconds. When Ikael speaks again, his voice is softer.

 _“Well, give yourself a hug for me, yeah?”_ he says. _“A big one. For at least half a bell.”_

Thancred snorts out a small laugh, shaking his head lightly. “Aye.”

_“I’m serious!”_

Thancred smiles. “I know, Ikael,” he says, somewhat fondly. “And I shall do my best to hold a memory of a hug close.”

Again, a few seconds pass before Ikael responds. _“You better,”_ he says.

And then, after what sounds like him clearing his throat, _“Oh, I should go before you make me cry! I’ll see you when I see you, Thancred, yeah?”_

Thancred smiles again. “Yeah,” he says, and shuts his linkpearl off.

~*~


	45. aether exhaustion

Y'shtola seats herself further upright as she waits for her bothersome caretaker to return, a light scowl on her face. It is not as if she has _asked_ to be indisposed.

Ikael comes back after not too long, the swish of his tail a faint movement in her senses’ peripheral. He is holding something; a mug? Yes—of… herbal tea. Fantastic.

Y'shtola hates herbal tea.

“Oh, I am sorry—did I keep you waiting overlong?” She can practically _hear_ the worried crease on Ikael’s brow. “Oh, I apologise! Here, you sit back now. Don’t push yourself!”

“Since it is in pushing myself magically that I got to this state after all, ‘tis highly unlikely I will seek to _repeat_ the incident,” Y'shtola says, but lies back, taking the mug. She makes an internal face, but sips at it nevertheless—she of all people knows to take medicine when it is given without fuss.

Hands that are not her own gently position the pillows around her into a more comfortable position. Y'shtola allows this, as well as the soft squeeze to her arm.

“Do you need anything else?” Ikael asks. He is fairly close.

“Not at the moment. And thank you, Ikael.” Y'shtola can retain enough of her good grace to muster up _manners_ , at least. “You are being most kind.”

“Oh, it is nothing! I do not like to see you ill.” Ikael’s weight settles by her feet. “Do you want me to go so you can take some rest?”

She considers. “… I am comforted by your presence, if anything,” she decides, shrugging off any distant embarrassment at admitting that. Ikael does not mock such things. “You have that effect on people. Stay, then, and perhaps tell me about your day.”

“Oh! Okay,” Ikael exclaims softly. He shifts around again, and she moves so he has space to sit next to her. He does so with a pleased little wiggle to his ears.

“Well, today I just went shopping. A little break, you know? And I do love looking at things to buy. But there was this one woman; shy, eyeing a pair of shoes that looked just a bit too expensive for her. And she would not take my money, so eventually…”

He talks, low enough that the words do not grate at her skull. At some point his hand brushes hesitantly against the fur of her tail, and she lets him lightly touch the softness, knowing he has an affinity for that sort of thing.

And she leans back and closes her eyes, even if it does not change much.

~*~


	46. nap aftermath

Thancred wakes up feeling overly warm and smothered, the breeze no longer enough to keep the slow slink of heat away.

Or rather, he corrects himself as he blinks his way to awareness, enough to keep the heat of the _sun_ away, but not the weight of an entire sleep-clingy miqo’te. Ikael is lounging mostly on top of him and is spread, somehow, across the entire breadth of the lounge ottoman.

Thancred groans inwardly. How has he forgotten Ikael does this?

“’kael,” he grunts, allowing himself to use excuse of having just woken up to call Ikael that, “Wake up.”

There is a soft murmur, and Ikael’s ears flick, tickling Thancred's chin. The slow, sleepy movement of his head and the accompanying noise—the _smallest_ of sounds—are endearing enough that Thancred smiles a little against the crushing weight spread over the near entirety of his body.

“’m awake,” Ikael mumbles, and Thancred feels his jaw move as he yawns. Then his limbs are all retreating, and he is curling up into a ball again, rolling over and then flopping down until he can blink slowly at Thancred's face.

“An octopus,” Thancred says.

Ikael’s brows draw together. “Hm?”  

“The way you spread out,” Thancred tries to explain, although he knows it is futile. Ikael always denies it. “You… expand. Then contract.”

Ikael looks at him… looks at him some more… and then squints, eyes turning into tiny scrunched up lines. “I… don’t know what you mean,” he says. Before Thancred can reply, he adds, “Obviously, you moved me.”

Thancred snorts in amusement, but drops the subject, knowing it is a battle he will never win. “Alright, you smug bastard,” he says, “Nap taken. Now it is time to get yelled at for doing nothing.”

“Hm.” Ikael slinks off the ottoman, yawning once more. “I don’t know what you mean,” he repeats.

He stretches. Thancred watches his tail as it straightens out, sticking up. He sighs.

“No, I don’t suppose you do,” he mutters, rolling his neck before sliding off the ottoman himself.

~*~

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> this is a continuation of a lovely [thing](http://draw-you-coward.tumblr.com/post/174095638002/glyphenthusiast-for-draw-you-coward-keep) someone wrote me of ikael and thancred <3


	47. perfume

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> Please read "What's in a name, anyways?" if you haven't already! It's part 2 of "ikael", I think. Otherwise this won't make much sense!  
> <3

“Ikael? Are you around?” Thancred moves a few crates out of his way as glances around. Ikael had come back some time ago from a trip to the Rising Stones, where he had gone to gather a few things to bring to Rhalgr’s Reach. Better than buying them anew, they have figured. And since Ikael’s grasp of aether as the Warrior of Light is strong enough to teleport a good cartful of goods with him… well. He has nothing better to do, and he volunteered.

Still, he has been down here for a while, and Thancred has not seen him come back up. Perhaps he has dropped something, or accidentally unleased a voidsent into their headquarters. Either way, Y'shtola is getting impatient about an ingredient she has been waiting on for a salve or some such remedy, and Thancred does not particularly wish to face her annoyance if Ikael is too late in providing.

 “Ikael?” he calls out again, glancing around as he steps into a sub-level. He sees footprints and wheel-marks on the stone floor, leading to a closed storage room door. “What is taking so long? I do hope you have not summoned anything deadly and paranatural because you dropped a cursed mason jar or something.”

He is about to open the door when a voice hisses, “Thancred!”

He spins around, alert, and blinks at Ikael—covered in dust, a ratty sackcloth pressed to his nose and mouth.

“Oh, is it poison spores?” Thancred begins to move the collar of his own coat. “Am I going to die?” he adds as an idle afterthought.

Ikael’s eyes roll briefly, but he quickly shakes his head. “Nothing of the sort,” he assures, voice muffled.

“It is just…” He pauses, and Thancred sees the hesitation in his tone leak to the rest of his body. “I… there is a smell. I-I opened one of the crates I found containing our old stuff, and… I-I just don’t… I cannot breathe it in. Is all.”

Thancred tilts his head, sniffing at the air a little. He does not smell anything. He glances at the closed door, and sees that it is quite heavy, the lack of a visible gap around the frame making it very nearly airtight. Any smell on the other side would most likely be contained.

“Are your delicate miqo’te senses fighting against you?” he teases, chuckling. “It cannot be that bad.”

The moment of silence before Ikael answers is telling. “It… is just strong, is all,” he says. “You are right—it will not affect you as much. Would you mind unloading the cart for me? I’ll bake you a cake or something.”

“Hm—no fruits,” Thancred tells him, and turns back to the door. The sound of Ikael quickly scuttling backwards gives him pause, but he shrugs and pushes it open with a low grunt.

At first the only smell is dust and musty wood, and Thancred takes it in with a little confused glance at the toppled cart in the middle of the room. It is lying on its side, contents spilling out, as if someone has dropped it in a hurry. Thancred frowns as he steps closer—most of the items are crated, and there is no telling if there is something fragile inside any of them. Some are labelled, but it looks like Ikael has just grabbed whatever—

The light, sweet scent of a very familiar perfume drifts to his nostrils right before he sees the crate that Ikael has opened—lying on top of the pile. The lid has slid off to the side, and is still obstructing some of its contents, but the rest are clearly visible.

 _Oh_ , is all Thancred thinks, reaching down to slowly pick up one of Minfilia’s scarves.

It is silk—soft and thin. Ikael would like it, Thancred considers idly, then snorts at himself.

He folds the scarf up carefully before lifting the lid off the crate and setting it to the side. The smell of Minfilia’s perfume is not… _strong_ , per se, but it is very much sticking to the items inside the crate.

Which are mostly clothing, Thancred finds as he gingerly searches through it. Otherwise, there is a small, travel-sized hairbrush and a compact mirror. Thancred sighs softly as he looks at the mirror; Ikael had given that to her, along with a comment about liking the flowery design on the front.

Thancred closes the crate and picks it up, glancing around the room. The smell of perfume still lingers some, and if he can smell it, Ikael definitely will. Perhaps Thancred can get a chest to keep all of this in.

He sets the crate down to deal with later, and heads back to the door. It occurs to him, as he opens it, that _he_ will most likely smell now as well.

Ikael has vanished, and Thancred makes sure the door to the storage room is firmly shut before he brushes his hands off as best he can and goes to look for him.

He finds him slumped against a wall, a good distance away from where he had been before. Thancred kneels down in front of him, and Ikael peeks at him from above his cloth. He says nothing.

“… I’ll empty the cart out,” Thancred states after a moment. Ikael nods gratefully, gaze dropping.

Thancred's hand brushes against his hair. “If anything like this happens again, just call me by linkpearl, alright?” he says. Ikael looks at him and still does not speak, but gives another, smaller nod.

“Or if I am not there, call Y'shtola,” Thancred says. At the shift in Ikael’s shoulders, he asks, “Do you want me to tell her?”

Ikael blinks at him. “… I don’t know,” he mumbles. Thancred considers.

“Hm. How about I simply tell her that you are not…” He makes an open gesture, “… amenable to some things, and I will leave it at that. She will respect it.”

Ikael nods again, looking thankful.

Then he pulls the cloth tighter over his mouth, shooting Thancred an apologetic glance. He withdraws, understanding.

“I will go deal with the cart,” he says. “In the meanwhile, perhaps help Y'shtola with her salves? It might mediate her impatient wrath.”

Ikael giggles a little, but nods and gets up, and Thancred watches him as he totters off. Then he rises as well, rolling his shoulders with a sigh. He has work to do.

~*~


	48. axi

“And… she said that she isn’t comfortable with that. That I do not have a… a-a dedicated field healer, as it is.” Ikael fidgets, scratching at the wood grain of their table with his nail.

“Hm.” Axi does not fidget. She is staying very still, sitting up straight with very good posture, actually—it is making Ikael feel not a little self-conscious.

“You know, so…” Ikael scratches a little faster. “If you are… available for this one, may you come with me? I will pay you what you wish.”

Axi finally moves a little; a slight tilt of her head. Ikael lets out a little sigh of relief.

“For… your friend,” she specifies. “So she will not worry about you getting injured?”

“Well—injury is inevitable, of course,” Ikael says, crossing his ankles together as he leans forward. “But for Y’shtola’s peace of mind afterwards. She says that she does not like how… quick some people are. They do not know me, after all. A-and…” His gaze drifts down. “She has had a lot on her plate as of late. I simply wish to ease some of her worry.”

“I know Y'shtola.” Axi tilts her head further. “I met her once, when I was with Mhitra.”

Mhitra? Ikael frowns a little before he remembers. Ah—her sister.

“I know that… your role of choice is not as a healer,” he says. “I have…” He starts to sift through his coin purse. “I can pay… a few hundred thousand, at most—I bought a new scarf the other day, so I do not have—”

He trails off as Axi raises a hand. “Stop,” she says. “Do you still have those powdered mini-donuts from last time?”

Ikael blinks. That had been… some time ago. Does she think he just… keeps them on his person at all times?

“I… can bake more?” he offers.

Axi smiles at him suddenly. “Perfect,” she says. “That is all the payment I require. I make more money than you, anyhow.”

That is… true. And she is much wiser in spending it (although that does not say much).

“Thank you, Axi,” he says sincerely, raising his head as she stands tall above him. “You are my favourite elezen.”

“From the comments I have heard you make about a certain leader of Ishgard,” she says, picking up her grimoire and tucking it away, “I do hope that is not true.”

“Ah…”

There is a sudden, extremely shrill shrieking noise, and Ikael jumps nearly a good fulm into the air, clutching at his chair. He stares, aghast, at the… carbuncle?

“For gods’ sake, shut up,” Axi tells it, snapping her fingers until it trots next to her, glowing tail wiggling. “I did not take that long. And you scared the cat.”

“Uh…” Ikael says.

The carbuncle gives him a look of disdain. Oh. _He_ is the cat.

“Don’t die before the fight, Ikael,” Axi tells him, and gives him a little pat on the head before walking away.

Ikael slumps in his chair. He has… donuts to stress-bake.

~*~


	49. in more than three words

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> contains references to scenes from "ikael", so if u read that see if u can catch them hehe

“Hey,” Ikael says when they are both younger and there is still a lingering uncertainty to his questions, a shy touch to his smiles and his eyes. “Are you hungry?”

Thancred laughs—a bit rudely—because right now his skin is soft and his hair is short and his heart is light and somewhat arrogant. “Why; are you going to cook?” he jests. “My good fellow, I’d much rather eat well-prepared food in beauteous company; why, that inn over yonder must have quite a variety of selections!”

He adds a wink and a laugh. Ikael does not blush as he usually does, and his answering smile stutters before blooming, but Thancred does not think much of it. Not when there is better company to be had than bungling novice adventurers, and better food to be eaten than stick-roasted dodo.

~*~

“You want more pie?” Ikael asks casually, and it is on the angry night when Thancred has been drowning his sorrows on a rooftop… when an empty tin that held lemon pie five minutes ago sits between them.

“Ifrit take yer bloody pie,” he growls irritably, but he is more confused than angry, really, and when Ikael laughs and trots away to fetch more, Thancred waits perhaps a bit eagerly for him to return.

No one need know, anyways. And he is sure that no matter whatever kind stroke of whimsy this is, it will not last.

~*~

“Hey,” Ikael says softly when Thancred is recovering from a fever he has been all but _coddled_ over, “Are… you feeling up to eating? Is your appetite back?”

There is soft worry in Ikael’s eyes, and a hint of desperation—of trepidation—that Thancred will only realize is there when he looks back much, much later. But right now he only sees more worry about his health, and he rolls his eyes, waves his hand dismissively. Yes, Ikael, he is _fine_ , and he does not need an extra mother, thank you very much.

~*~

Thancred knows, now. Ikael is surprisingly guarded for one so open—his heart is shielded even if he wears it on his sleeve. It is such an odd juxtaposition that it almost does not make any sense… but it does. Thancred understands now that _love_ does not have to be _trust._ And kindness is not shackled to either.

“Have you eaten?” Ikael asks, eyes soft with worry. He is speaking quietly, so as not to disturb anyone else. The exhaustion in the camp is in every step of every soldier, in every weary sigh of a healer. They are tired, as is everyone else.

Thancred is hungry, _very_ hungry, and though he has realized this some time ago, he has pushed the thought away in lieu of more important things. But no, he has not eaten. Has anyone?

“No,” he tells Ikael truthfully, because there is no need for unnecessary obtuseness, not now. He is too tired for walls—or perhaps there are not any, in the realm of things like these. Trust can be tired, too. It can be weathered.

And it is. Ikael simply nods, and gets them both plain meals to eat. No fuss. And that… fits.

~*~

 “Anyone want food?” Ikael asks one day out of many, and he is, of course, met with laughs and teasing and good-natured taunts. He responds with a chuckle, and goes to get food anyway.

Thancred only smiles a little, because the question has changed—it has not changed, but it has _changed._ It is not the same one that it was when they first met. It is the one that Ikael repeats all the time; with a soft touch on the arm, with a kind word or a fleeting, genuine smile. Not a _question_ , not really.

“I saved the last cookie,” Thancred says when Ikael returns. “For you, since you made them.”

There is a flash of surprise in Ikael’s eyes—and then it softens. Into something warm and understanding.

“You didn’t need to do that,” he murmurs, starting to smile. He takes the cookie. “I’d bake you them regardless.”

“I know,” says Thancred.

He does. And even if a single cookie is no lemon pie…

It will do. It is all he has to offer.

~*~


	50. oh shit it's chapter 50 i didn't notice haha

“Wait—Ikael,” Thancred asks, “You didn’t learn to cook to… impress anyone, did you?”

Ikael turns his head around to stare at him. Thancred is sure it is because he just asked a _ridiculous_ question… or at least he very greatly hopes so.

“… Why do you ask?” Ikael says. “Is there… someone in particular you are thinking of?”

“Ah…” Thancred licks his lips. How does he tread into possibly dangerous territory? With caution. Preferably knives.

“I was just thinking; I was… missing for quite a large chunk of the whole, ah, Ultima debacle,” he offers with a hand wave.

“Mm _hm_.” Ikael does not sound terribly impressed. He does not look it, either.

“And… by the time I came back, you had gotten quite good. If I may say so!” Thancred laughs a little, so Ikael might think it is okay to smile at him.

Ikael does not smile at him. “I _had_ ,” he says, crossing his arms.

Well. There is no truly convenient way to phrase this. “Of course, you were lacking a bit in technique, but you more than made up for it later,” Thancred says pointlessly. From Ikael’s raised eyebrow, his attempt at stalling has not gone unnoticed.

He hurriedly continues, “Anyways—around that time you seem to have… lost any, ah…” He makes an ambiguously blissful face, and Ikael’s eyebrow arches higher. “… lingering sentiment you had previously felt towards me. The passion for food stayed, however! For which we are all eternally grateful.”

He laughs, and gives a little wink. Ikael starts tapping his arm with his finger.

“Thancred,” he says, sounding half exasperated and half indifferently monotonous, “I didn’t learn how to cook because I had a _crush_ on you _._ ”

“Aha,” Thancred says, laughing a little more, “Of course not! I wasn’t… ah, well. I was. Ridiculous question. Do not mind me.”

“You self-absorbed, egocentric _buffoon_ ,” Ikael says with a gratuitous eye roll, and Thancred makes a little offended noise.

“You were _pretty_ , that is all,” Ikael continues, tilting his head and tapping his finger faster. “And superficially charming—but a bit of an arse. More so than now, I mean. Those were the traits I was attracted to, and when they were no longer there—when _you_ were no longer there, they were shallow enough to fade.”

He gives a little smile ( _finally_ , even if it is at Thancred's expense). “It was all that was not superficial about you that made me wish for your true friendship,” he says, uncrossing his arms to touch Thancred's chest with his fingertips. His smile grows, turns into something fond. “I am glad I succeeded in obtaining it.”

“Th-that… is not what I was asking,” Thancred stutters. He clears his throat. Ikael’s smile grows further, and Thancred decidedly ignores it. “It is not relevant to my initial question.”

“Which was?” Ikael's ear flicks. “Ah, yes. Well, I will tell you this—you liking my pie that one time on the roof _did_ give me a good boost in motivation. It was then that I started to take it all more seriously, I think.”

“I do not know what you are talking about.” Thancred knows exactly what he is talking about. “But it is nice to know that I _did_ have an impact. Maybe any egocentrism on my part is not unfounded.”

Ikael laughs. “I am sure it is entirely unfounded,” he says cheerfully. He tilts his head, making as if to think. “Hm… it was lemon pie, if you do not remember. Huh—odd; you have told me since that you like lemon quite a lot! I’d wager a guess and say it is your favourite flavour! Glad I can wrestle the Limsan out of you—gods forbid I make rum-flavoured cupcakes.”

“I—lemon has _always_ been one of my favourites,” Thancred argues, determined not to get caught off guard again. And with _Ikael_ , too—that would be so _terribly_ embarrassing. “You have not… _affected_ me in any way.”

“Of course!” Ikael says, grinning.

“All you do is traipse around all day,” Thancred doggedly continues, “Solving people’s petty problems for gil, spending it all the next day on shoes or something—shoes that do not even _match_ —and then coming home and fussing over us not having completely stuffed ourselves with overly gratuitous dinners.”

“Mmhm!” Ikael is still grinning.

“You are just _here_ ,” Thancred says, “To fight _primals_. And provide entertainment. And food.”

Ikael hugs him. Thancred grumbles, kicks around somewhat, and eventually loosely hugs him back.

“You are irritating and nosy and I hate you,” he mutters.

“Conversely, I like you a lot,” Ikael says back, squeezing him. “Even if you have had absolutely no impact on me as a person.”

Thancred grunts a little in surprise, then huffs out a chuckle. “Very well then,” he says. “It seems we are both on the same page.”

~*~


	51. hi im new

Ukebe could not _wait_ to meet the Warrior of Light.

He was a _miqo’te_ , Ukebe had learned—like him—but he was six fulms tall and had a presence that shone radiance through the blackest of nights to touch the hearts of righteous men. His name was Ikael Jelaar and he was the Slayer of Gods, the Saviour of Men, he was… he was… _magnificent_.

Or at least that’s what Ukebe had learned from the books he had shoved his nose into. The occasional tickle of a dusty sneeze had been worth it.

But finally— _finally_ —he had left the Arcanist’s Guild—with some tears and quick farewells—and had managed to _find the Scions of the Seventh Dawn!_ And _join_ them! Join them! All it had taken was a laugh and a “Sure, mate. I’ll take ye te meet one of the senior Scions, yeah?” and Ukebe was _in_.

Just like that. No pomp or ceremony. No arduous tasks. Just a drive to better the world.

Of course, he was still a recruit, and as such he seemed to be on a… probation period of sorts. Occasionally he would garner a wary eye, and people did not speak of anything truly important near him. Still, that much was understandable—and, quite frankly, to be expected. Eventually, Ukebe hoped, he could earnestly swear himself to secrecy. He really _did_ want to help.

He also wanted to meet the Warrior of Light.

It was one of Ukebe’s first evenings here. The atrium was half empty, and people seemed to be mostly winding down for the day. There were a few odd characters scattered around—a scantily-clad miqo’te sitting oddly at a counter, a lalafell who seemed to be trying and failing to put on a magic trick show, a roegadyn in the corner doing pull-ups from a rafter. Ukebe hoped that the Warrior of Light would show up sooner rather than later.

There was a disgruntled-looking man with a vaguely threatening aura standing with his arms crossed against a wall. Ukebe recognized him—a senior Scion by the name of Thancred, he believed. He started to make his way towards him—perhaps he knew where the Warrior of Light was.

Thancred watched him as he approached, uncrossing his arms. The movement made him seem a little more relaxed, as did the smile he sent Ukebe’s way.

“May I help you, my good man?” he asked, and Ukebe did his best to smile back politely.

“We met just a few days ago. You probably do not remember me, but my name is Ukebe,” he said with a short bow.

“I do remember you, in fact,” Thancred replied with a charming little grin. “The new recruit, yes? Welcome to the Scions. I do hope everything has been to your liking so far. We are a bit of a ragtag bunch, but we get the job done. Well, mostly. Our dear Warrior of Light does the majority of the heavy lifting.”

He chuckled. Ukebe did as well, ears perking up at the mention of the Warrior of Light. Thancred seemed… friendly with him? Or at least comfortable enough to speak of him as such.

“That is actually what I wanted to ask you about,” Ukebe continued. “I… was wondering if you knew when the Warrior of Light would be dropping in? I heard that he visits here often.”

“Ikael?” Thancred asked, one eyebrow arching up to the height of an eyebrow that specifically learned how to do that for dramatic purposes.

The scantily-clad miqo’te off by the counter glanced back at them when he heard the name. Perhaps he was searching for the Warrior of Light as well?

“Ah… yes,” Ukebe replied, watching as the miqo’te drew his legs up over his stool, then tugged at his ankles until he was sitting nearly sideways against the counter. What an odd fellow.

“Ikael is here,” Thancred said, sounding incredibly amused for some reason.

That caught Ukebe’s attention. “What? Here?” He looked around, scanning the room quickly for six fulms of Light and glory. “Where?”

He glanced back at Thancred when he heard him cough lightly, smiling into his fist. Ukebe waited for a response, feeling his heartbeat quicken in anticipation. He was about to meet the _Warrior of Light._

“Over there,” Thancred said, and pointed at the corner where the counters were.

Ukebe stared at the area in some confusion. The only person there was the strange miqo’te (who appeared to be tugging a plate of… pancakes towards himself). He could not make out anyone else, so unless the Warrior of Light was _invisible_ , Ukebe was… missing… something…

“What?!” Ukebe’s voice was perhaps a bit too pitchy and surprised to be entirely polite. “ _Him_?”

“Without a doubt,” Thancred replied, still sounding far more amused than the situation warranted.

Ukebe watched as… the Warrior of Light, apparently, slowly pulled a pancake off the top of the pile and started nibbling at it.

“Is that… how he eats?” Ukebe asked blankly, feeling too lost to come up with a better question.

“Pancakes, yes,” Thancred replied, and Ukebe watched the Warrior of Light eat a pancake with his bare hands for a good thirty seconds before forcing himself to look away.

“I just thought,” he offered helplessly to Thancred's sympathetic face, “that someone who was known as the _Warrior of Light_ would be less… less…”

“I must apologize—I myself recruited him,” Thancred said. “But once you have gotten over yourself, try saying hello to him. He’s always happy to make a new friend.”

And with that, he walked away, humming what Ukebe vaguely recognized as a Limsan pirate shanty. Ukebe stared after him, then back towards the Warrior of Light. He didn’t know what to… what to…

He took a deep, determined breath, then rolled up his sleeves. Well. Might as well make a new friend.

~*~


	52. what do you want?

“I just—” Ikael’s face is half desperate, half upset. “—I-I want to help you! I want to do what I can. With—with—with everything that’s going on, I-I can’t—I’m not—”

Ikael looks as if he is on the verge of tears, and given the spasmodic clenching of his fingers on his tail and the waver in his voice, Thancred guesses that he might very well go over that edge without any further pushing on his part.

“Ikael.” He tries to gentle his tone. He does not know if it succeeds—it is impossible to tell if the way Ikael’s face scrunches up is because of Thancred, or if it is just the next unavoidable sequence in this turn of events. “I _understand_ that. I know that you are sometimes possessed with this unrestrainable desire to overcompensate and prove that you are—”

“I’m not _overcompensating!_ ” Ikael’s voice turns pitchy and wet, and those are the last clear words he says. He drags the back of his hand over his eyes, and when he speaks again, his stutter is back. “I-I-I just wanted t-to do something o-other than—than—I-I wanted to _help!_ I-I’m not doing e-enough. C-cooking is the—is the— _least_ I c-can _do_ —!”

He starts crying in small little hiccupping sobs, and Thancred feels like shite stuck to the sole of his boot—as he always does when that happens. He puts his hands on Ikael’s shoulders, trying to pull him closer. Ikael allows this, at least, which gives Thancred some hope.

“I know you are trying to help,” he says in a low voice, ducking his head down to look Ikael in the eye as best he can. “But when you are overworking yourself like that, all you are doing is worrying us. You have enough on your plate as it is, Ikael; none of us expect more from you. We _can_ cook and care for ourselves, you know.”

“W-w-well, what else c-can I _do?!”_ Ikael cries, hunching in on himself. “I-I just wanted to m-make you h-happy. I thought you wanted me to—wanted m-me t-t-to…”

“Ikael…” Thancred sighs, and tugs Ikael close as he sniffles and hiccups into his shoulder. “Alright. Alright, it is okay. I will speak more once you calm down some, yes?”

Ikael does not have a noticeable response to that, but Thancred nevertheless waits until he starts shaking a little less, until his breathing seems to even out.

“Okay.” Thancred moves his arms from Ikael's back to take him by the shoulders once more, shifting back into much the same position they had been in before. “Listen to me, alright? I am not angry with you.”

Ikael’s eyes shift up to meet his, which is a good sign. Thancred nods, and continues.

“You are too focused,” he chides gently, “on _us_. We are fine, Ikael. You are doing more than enough, and there is no need to try and do even more. Trust me, of all people, when I say that overworking yourself will do the opposite of help.”

Ikael stares at him, and draws in a shaky breath, but nods once, seeming to get Thancred's point. Thancred sighs, squeezing his shoulders, and keeps talking.

“You need to stop thinking of only us,” he says softly. “ _You_ are also important. You should be important to yourself as well, Ikael. So right here, right now, forget about us, or anything we may or may not want.”

Ikael makes a small noise, and wipes at his eyes, but nods again, sniffling. Good; he is listening.

“Let us talk,” Thancred continues, “about what _you_ want. What did you hope to achieve, hm? Why are you upset?”

It is a moment before Ikael does anything, but then he is moving towards the bed, gesturing for them to sit. Thancred obliges, and soon has a lapful of comfortably clinging miqo’te.

“I-I want,” Ikael mumbles, giving a little sniff, “y-you to be h-happy from what I do for you. N-no one… y-you can yell at me for doing things all you want, b-but at least say that you… that you liked the food…”

“Oh, Ikael.” Thancred sighs, absently stroking his hair. “Of course we liked the food. We always like the food. But food does not taste stronger than worry.”

“I know.” Ikael’s voice is getting a little stronger now, which is good. He clears his throat. “I-it just… it hurt a bit, yeah? I… please, if you are going to tell me off… at least acknowledge that I tried my best.”

Thancred nods. “As you say,” he concedes quietly.

“I am not going to… _cry_ about it.” Ikael closes his eyes, leaning his head against Thancred. “I… I’m not _that_ sensitive. You can hurl abuse at me all you wish. I just… it is easier to think, if…”

Thancred mentally frowns at _hurl abuse_ , but nods once more. “I know, Ikael,” he says. “I am not infantilizing you. It is not wrong to feel emotions freely.”

Ikael sighs softly, then adjusts his position, shifting so he is more comfortably settled against Thancred. “I will nap, and then we can speak more,” he mumbles. “I am tired.”

Thancred chuckles. “Alright,” he says, leaning down to take off his boots as Ikael moves to lie on the bed.

Ikael squints at him. “… You're napping with me?”

Thancred gives him a little smile. “I do not see why not,” he says as he settles himself next to Ikael. He moves forward, and gives him a soft kiss on the head. “’Tis the least I can do, after all you have done for us today.”

Ikael stares at him for a moment, then smiles, sudden and warm, and Thancred finds himself responding in kind. A nap, then, and they will speak later.

~*~


	53. cwtch

“You called me in here,” Thancred murmurs, “Just because you are cold?”

Despite the inherent sarcasm of his words, his tone is affectionate, and his gaze more so. Ikael makes a fluttering sound, beckoning him closer with the tips of his fingers.

Thancred obeys wordlessly, the amused twinkle in his eye and the relaxed nature of his movements projecting a warmth that Ikael happily responds to. He opens his arms, straightening up.

Thancred laughs, sinking from his knees onto the bed. Ikael hurries to embrace him, sighing into the soft woolen fabric of his sweater.

“This was a wise purchase,” he mumbles, eyes slipping shut.

“Was it? I shall be sure to thank the man who purchased it for me, then.” There is a smile in Thancred's voice. “Thank you, Ikael.”

Ikael purrs contentedly, wiggling a little closer, a little tighter. It is a moment before he notices Thancred's stillness—until he starts to move again, slowly stroking Ikael’s hair.

“What?” Ikael mumbles, a small pinprick of curiosity drawing the question forth.

Thancred continues to stroke his hair; Ikael feels himself relax. He is not _truly_ that cold, but the closeness of Thancred's soft warmth makes him glad he called him over. He can feel Thancred's heartbeat—feel the vibration of his voice just before he speaks.

“You seldom make that noise,” Thancred mutters quietly. Ikael’s ears lazily swivel to catch the words. “At least, that I have noticed.”

Thancred notices a lot, Ikael knows. “Well, you are not miqo’te,” Ikael says. “We tend to be more… like ourselves, amongst our kind.”

“Makes sense.” Thancred moves them so they are lying down, and Ikael gladly curls up against him. “I do not know if hyur do anything specific, but if we do, you have had the gracious pleasure of experiencing it indiscriminately.”

Ikael laughs, nosing into Thancred's chest. His sweater smells nice—like heat and softness and Thancred.

“Mostly it is just an issue of familiarity,” he explains. “Although of course, I can only speak for myself. I do not wish to be mocked, nor treated like a pet, nor scorned. And I do not think about these things around you.”

His eyes close. “You are safe. _You_ ,” he says, stroking the fabric of Thancred's sleeve.

“Well, I am touched,” Thancred replies lightly, but the way his fingers sweep softly up Ikael's own arm signifies the bare truth in his words. Ikael hums a smile.

“Also, you do not have a strange miqo’te fetish,” he adds. “That is always… unfortunate to discover.”

Thancred's fingers pause. “And when,” he asks after a moment, “Do you usually make that discovery?”

“Ah. Well.” Ikael shrugs noncommittally as best he can while lying down and smushed against another person. “Usually… during. It’s when they have an excuse to get close, you know? Although as soon as something… _weird_ happens, I make sure they are _very_ far away.”

Again, there is a pause before Thancred speaks again. It is quite uncharacteristic of him—should Ikael be worried?

“Good,” is all he says, and Ikael files away any concern away for later as he is squeezed a little, then pet again.

He purrs—just for Thancred, to show he appreciates it, and the petting gets slower. Softer. Ikael smiles.

“If you ever get an actual cat,” he mumbles, “I am going to leave you in a fit of jealous rage.”

His smile widens as Thancred laughs, surprised and genuine. Ikael listens, keeping an ear to the vibrations, and memorizes the moment to lock in his heart.

~*~


	54. my dear friend

“Have you not thought about specializing in other professions? Surely someone of your bearing must have some other skills to their name, no?”

Thancred's words are carefree, and somewhat careless, if he is honest. But he does not mind it overmuch—their newly-titled Warrior of Light is of a cheerful sort, as he has learned over this past year, and is hard to offend. Thancred leans back in his chair, comparing the fullness of Ikael’s glass to his. He had called Ikael over on sight—social drinking with the Warrior of Light, even if neither of them are actually drinking, does wonders for a man’s image.

“Someone of my ‘bearing?’” is what Ikael says, instead of defending his amateur culinary interest as Thancred has expected.

“Ah, you know.” Thancred offers a gleaming smile with a little twirl of his wrist. “Warrior of Light, Saviour of Eorzea… all that. Do you never find yourself drawn to something other than pugilism?”

Ikael glances down at his hands, briefly strokes over his thumb in that odd little way of his. “I am a monk now, actually.”

Thancred knows little of monks. “As of Ala Mhigan monks of eld? Ah—you will have to tell me later. You are avoiding the question, my friend!”

He laughs a little. Ikael looks up, not quite smiling. He takes a slow sip of his drink as his eyes roam across the room—searching for a prompt answer, hopefully.

He sets his glass down after a long moment. “I am not drawn to magicks,” he says. He gives a loose shrug. “I like the martial arts. I get the job done, do I not? I defeat your primals for you.”

“ _Our_ primals?” Thancred laughs some more, but waves his hand. “Very well, then—stay boring. But if you ever wish to be a more interesting combatant, do let me know. Besides, it is quite an attractive trait to be multi-talented!” He winks. “’Tis your loss, Ikael. If ever a rose scorns you for your lack of knowledge, you know who to turn to!”

Ikael looks at him, and still does not give him his usual cheerful smile. Thancred considers it for a moment—then shrugs it off. Everyone has their off days.

“I am not interested in roses, nor in combat,” Ikael says shortly, tone somewhat clipped. Thancred blinks at that. Perhaps an off… week, then.

“I fear I have caused offense,” he says with a friendly smile. “I must sincerely apologize. As you say, you more than get the job done. After all, we would not be sitting here if not for your most gracious victory!”

“If only your sincere apology and excessive flattery would bring back my good mood, yeah?” Ikael says with a wry gleam in his eye. “I am sorry I cannot be a well of endless good humour for you to drain today, Thancred. Perhaps try again on the morrow. Or, gods forbid, drain someone else.”

There is a long pause while Thancred, smile slowly drying off his face, interprets that. Then—before he can say anything—Ikael is pulling back, dropping a few coins on their table.

“I should not have spoken to you like that,” he says, quirking a small smile at Thancred. He rises, pushing in his chair. “I must sincerely apologize. Thank you for the drink, but I fear I must be going. Good day.”

He gathers his things, beginning to turn away.

“Wait.”

The word must be some sort of magic, because Ikael actually stops on the verge of his turn. He looks as if even he has not expected himself to do so, however—and as if he might leave at any moment—so Thancred speaks quickly.

“Please,” he says, “Explain. I did not wish to offend you, truly. And I cannot hope to be your friend if I do not learn how to properly make amends.”

Ikael pauses, and then slowly turns around. Thancred offers him a smile, gesturing back to his chair.

“‘Friend?’” Ikael questions, a hint of the first genuine emotion Thancred has seen all afternoon creeping into his tone. “Why aim for that lofty title?”

Thancred blinks; he… had thought they _were_ friends. Or at least not this far away from it.

“I… apologize,” he says. “It seems I have misjudged a few things.”

Ikael sits once more. He maintains eye contact, and only now is Thancred noticing that he hasn’t been doing so until now.

“Why?” Ikael says. “Because I bake pies for you? Because I add to your chances of getting a lay when I deign to grace you with my presence? Because I kill primals and do not whine about it afterwards? Is that not a ‘friend’ to you?”

Ikael’s tone is not… accusatory, per se, but flat. Not tired, but neutral. Thancred… wonders how long he has felt this way.

“Ikael,” he says, “I…”

“I will help.” Ikael seems to relax somewhat, although his gaze still pins Thancred to his seat. “Do not worry about it. I will keep doing it all regardless. I will keep _caring_ , regardless. You may consider me your friend, if you so wish.”

He breaks eye contact to look around, again. Thancred stays quiet, not wishing to interrupt in case Ikael has more to say.

He does. “Tomorrow,” he says, “I will be cheerful again. In a week, I will fight for the Scions again. I will do what is asked of me. Give more than what is asked of me. Take whatever you wish.”

Thancred glances down at his drink. Ikael says nothing more, and sips at his. He does not leave again.

Around them, people are living their own lives, oblivious to them. Ikael has not been recognized so far, and not a single person has approached their table. It is a moment of quiet loudness that Thancred would appreciate in any other circumstance. But now, he is just waiting. Finally, when the pads of Ikael's fingers begin tapping idly at an empty glass, Thancred speaks up.

“So,” he says quietly, “How did you get into cooking?”

Ikael’s fingers stop.

“I am already your friend, as I have said,” he tells Thancred, a hint of something latently wary in his voice. “You do not need to do that.”

“Ah.” Thancred spreads his hands. “But that is my conundrum, my dear Ikael. You are my friend, yes, but I am not yours.”

Music is playing somewhere, somewhat distantly. Ikael looks at Thancred intently for a long minute. Thancred tries, despite himself, despite everything, to be open. Ikael’s eyes are… green, he notices. Light green.

Then Ikael smiles, small but jarringly genuine. Thancred feels something in his chest unfold; a sharpness he did not know was there relaxing.

“Alright,” Ikael says, and begins to speak.

~*~


	55. fashion choices

“Why do you dress like that?” Alisaie asks one day, idly curious.

“Hm?” Ikael’s tail flicks as he concentrates on what he is doing, carefully finishing a frosted rose petal. “Dress like what?”

He pulls back to admire his handiwork. The delicate red swirls on white icing look quite lovely, if he does say so himself. Cake sculpture is the only artistic skill he has to be good at, and he tries his best.

“What do you think?” he asks Alisaie, stepping back to showcase his design. “I am no good at script work, but I think the roses came out nice, yeah?”

“Ooh; yes,” she says, peering at it. “That is lovely, Ikael. I do hope you are not undercharging whoever requisitioned it from you.”

He waves a hand. “It is a friend of Alianne’s nameday tomorrow,” he says. “Of course I will not charge her! That would be criminal.”

Alisaie shakes her head with a small smile. “Of course,” she repeats. She waits until he has washed his hands and untied his apron, and then beckons for him to take a seat near her.

She nods at his outfit as he tucks his ankles underneath himself. He is barefoot, and mostly barelegged—save a rather short scrap of cloth that barely brushes his thighs. His torso is clad only by a rather thin poncho; his stomach is visible whenever he shifts.

“You do not mind,” she asks, “if people cast judgement on you because of how much skin you show? Or if people objectify you, or judge your body?”

“Hm.” Ikael leans back as he considers the question. He senses no accusation or malicious intent in her tone; she is only questioning him out of genuine curiosity.

“Do you do any of those things?” he asks finally. He tilts his head, gaze darting back over to her. “To me?”

She frowns lightly. “Of course not,” she says. “I think not of such things—and I respect you. Not to mention, it would not be appropriate.”

He smiles. “Then I do not care,” he responds. He adjusts a portion of his poncho, flipping it over one arm.

“If the people who matter to me,” He indicates her, “do not do those things, then why should I worry? And besides, other people’s thoughts are not my responsibility. It is true that it has… come up, in the past, but I have dealt with it. And I still dress this way, yeah?”

He smiles, and Alisaie responds in kind, subconsciously adjusting herself to mirror his pose. His smile is… calming, as if he has not just spent the past two bells running around the kitchen as a harried, energetic blur.

“You are… oddly peaceful, for someone Thancred says is so high-strung,” she says before she can think of her words. Ikael blinks rapidly, a little shocked, and Alisaie’s mouth opens in gradual horror, spots of colour slowly blooming on her cheeks.

“I did not mean—!” She begins to shake her head, but Ikael is already laughing, apparently not offended in the slightest.

“High-strung?” he says, chuckling. “Aye… I suppose I can be. When the situation calls for it, at least. But these past years have taught me to lock that,” He winks, tapping his chest, “Away, for when I really need it. Like when I wish to take advantage of the fact that Thancred is still a believer in the oldest Limsan remedy for stress in the book… and I do not want to pay for my drink.”

Alisaie laughs, a little relieved at his easy temperament. “Of course,” she says. “Or when _he_ takes advantage of your overly worrisome nature to lie and say he has not eaten lunch, and then pack what you give him to eat later for dinner because he is too lazy to make it himself.”

Ikael stares at her for a moment.

“Yes,” he says, his tone flatly incredulous. “Like that.”

Alisaie smiles, and files away a mental note to tell Thancred to avoid Ikael for the next few days.

“Anyhow, how much did that poncho cost you? It is quite nice; I might consider buying one for myself…”

His ears perk up, and he trills out a fairly staggering number that makes her question whether Alphinaud is the only one who needs help with his financial decisions. He laughs at her reaction, waving it off, and before she knows it he has seemingly forgotten about her earlier words, and is telling her the stories of his latest three fashion mistakes.

~*~


	56. rations

“Do not say a _word_ ,” is the first thing Y'shtola says to him, instead of something normal like _Hello, Thancred_ , or _How are you?_

Thancred presses a finger to smirking lips, but mimes a brush as if painting the scene in front of him: Ikael, splayed over the couch, fast asleep and mouth slightly open, and Y'shtola, sitting primly with his head in her lap, running her fingers through his hair.

“I must reassess; you are infuriating even without a mouth,” Y'shtola mutters, evidently having sensed his gestures somehow. Thancred grins, and sits down across from her.

“One and a half,” Y'shtola says when he reaches for the cookies (exactly one and a half) on the coffee table. “And that will be _my_ allowance for the rest of the week. Did you eat yours already?”

“Am I finally allowed to speak?” Thancred murmurs, raising an eyebrow, and she shoots him an unimpressed look.

“Very well,” he continues, chuckling lightly. They both pause when Ikael makes a sleepy noise and shifts a little. Y'shtola stills until he stops.

“I gave the rest of my portion to Alphinaud,” Thancred tells her then, and Y'shtola gasps lightly.

“What?” she says. “After what happened not too many moons ago? Thancred! The boy will devour them.”

He shrugs. “He needs them,” he says cryptically, and takes the half-cookie.

“… Do you think,” Y'shtola begins after a minute, but Thancred is already shaking his head. She keeps on, regardless. “Do you think he will bake more if we ask him? He’s a pushover; we _know_ this.”

“He will not.” Thancred is still shaking his head. “You know not how stubborn he can be. Do you remember the few times when he mysteriously seemed to make _less_ for us?” He waits until Y'shtola nods. “That was because I tried asking him—nicely, if a bit… repetitively—if he would bake more. Do not push him.”

“Hmph.” Y'shtola’s eyes fall, half-lidded. “… Very well, then. It is probably for the best, anyhow. I cannot imagine this is incredibly healthy.”

Thancred shrugs, finishing his cookie. “Why not enjoy life’s short pleasures while it lasts?” he says. “I see no harm in it.”

“Evidently,” Y'shtola mutters shrewdly. He quirks an eyebrow at her with a small grin, but does not say anything, because Ikael is moving again.

And waking up, apparently. He sits up, rubbing into his eyes with his fists, and looks around.

Then he puffs out air through his cheeks and drops his head back into Y'shtola’s lap, his eyes drifting shut once more. Apparently _not_ waking up, then.

“Take exactly a quarter of the last cookie,” Y'shtola says to Thancred, “And we will split it.”

He grins at her, even if she perhaps cannot see it, and gets out his knife.

~*~


	57. tendency to cry a lot

The first time Thancred ever sees Ikael cry is after Ifrit. Ikael is hunched over, nearly curled up on himself at a desk, and he is weeping in small, choked shakes. Thancred feels the guilt stuck like treacle to his stomach spread even further; this is because of _him_ , he knows it. He knew he had not imagined the wildness to Ikael’s eyes when Thancred had finally arrived, nor the expression of something close to betrayal. _He_ is the one who has turned a smiling, wide-eyed adventurer into… this state, and it is all his fault—Ikael will never forgive him.

Thancred vanishes from sight. Ikael had not noticed him.

~*~

Thancred takes a moment, after Ultima, after everything, to gently pull Ikael aside. Ikael’s ears perk up curiously, and he gifts Thancred with a smile, but still—this is a different man than the one Thancred had recruited all those moons ago. The difference is small, yes, but it is there, and Thancred fears it is vital.

“Ikael,” he says, serious for a rare moment, “I wish to apologize. Not because of all the trouble I have caused—that too, of course—but back when you were new to the Scions. When I sent you to fight Ifrit, mine own arrival was less than timely. I should have fought with you.”

He would get brushed off, he thinks, were Ikael anyone else. But Thancred remembers the redness to his eyes when he had quietly arrived in the Solar afterwards, the almost hurt flatness to his gaze at Thancred's praises. And Ikael is… different than other people. Thancred does not know him well enough to tell how—but he is.

Ikael does not say anything for a moment; he looks like he is gathering his thoughts, so Thancred impulsively slips in, “I should not have abandoned you.” It is an add-on to his apology that is not rehearsed. He almost regrets it, but does not pull the words back.

Something strange and almost painful flashes across Ikael’s face for a split second—but then he is nodding.

“Thank you,” he says.

Thancred almost smiles. Of _course_ Ikael would say that, instead of “It is okay,” or even, “I forgive you.” Of course.

He does not know exactly what to make of Ikael’s little mysteries, but it is something that he will only learn with time. And time shall always pass.

~*~

Alphinaud has never seen Ikael cry. Thancred is not… expecting this, exactly. Ikael has a tendency to get misty-eyed over the smallest of gestures; surely Alphinaud must have seen at least this?

He has, but not often, and he does not seem to count it. “I do not know why Ikael has developed such a reputation of indulgent sentimentalism amongst yourselves,” Alphinaud says. “I hardly think the rare times he tears up with a smile are worth noting to that extent. And it is not as if he frees himself to his tears.”

Thancred is caught so off-guard that he has to take a moment to gather himself. Then he inquires, quietly, making sure Ikael is not within earshot, about Lord Haurchefant.

Alphinaud shrugs. “He did not shed a single tear,” he says. “The most emotion he showed afterwards was a sudden burst of anger.”

Thancred considers this, when he has the time to think in solitude. Then he shakes his head with a small smile, and marvels at Ikael's ability to seamlessly sew up his heart, even in seemingly the most extreme circumstances. Even towards Alphinaud, apparently—the diplomat—without him noticing.

But Thancred knows enough about Ikael now to know that there must have been a release, somewhen, somehow. He wonders if anyone bore witness to _that._

~*~

“—and you _cannot._ Do you understand?!”

“Alright,” Ikael says, bowing his head. “I am sorry.”

It is almost worse, sometimes, being someone Ikael now trusts with his emotions. Because he does not try to hide the way he wipes at his eyes with the back of his hand, and although he does not do it in such a way as to draw attention to it, of course Thancred cannot help but notice. Even through the red tinge of annoyance clouding his mind, he notices. How can he not?

“I do not mean to yell at you,” Thancred says, almost gentling his voice by reflex. Ikael shakes his head.

“No,” he says, “You are right.” And then he looks up, and oh, that is worse. Because Thancred does not know—does Ikael expect him to react to his tears? Will he be hurt if he does not?

But Ikael does not have a manipulative bone in his body, and it is most likely that he simply does not know what else to do other than be honest. Thancred, right now, barely knows what to do. As it is, he simply stands there and watches as Ikael sniffles a bit, absently dabs at his eyes with the collar of his shirt.

“Do you want… a hug?” Thancred offers haltingly. Ikael looks at him.

“No. I’m okay,” he says.

“… Ah,” Thancred replies awkwardly.

Ikael says nothing more. Thancred resists the urge to scratch at his neck. “Well,” he says, “I… am glad you understand. I…”

Then he shakes his head, and changes the direction of his words. “I do not mean to hurt or offend you, Ikael,” he says. “But I cannot… _not_ say anything to you that—”

“I know.” Ikael cuts him off. “Of course. I would not want you to stop yourself, and definitely not on account of me. That does not mean that it has to feel great. But that is my problem, and not yours. And I have dealt with it all my life, have I not?”

By “dealt with it,” Thancred highly suspects Ikael means either “cried about it in the moment,” or “cried about it later.” Ah well. At least he does not internalize things.

“Well,” Ikael says while Thancred is busy feeling like shite, “I’m going to go to my room and dwell on this a little bit more. If you want food, find me in a few bells.”

He turns to go. Clearly, puzzlingly, _Thancred_ is the one with the problem now, since, in a ridiculous turn of events, Ikael is right. Ikael is used to the way he reacts to things. Thancred… is not quite content with just leaving it as is.

“Wait,” he calls, and Ikael pauses and turns around. Thancred jogs to catch up with him.

“I’ll go with you,” he says. “We can talk. Work on it together.”

There is a moment where Ikael tilts his head, stares at him. Then he smiles, brilliantly.

“Thank you,” he says.

Thancred smiles back. “Thank _you_.”

~*~


	58. fever

Ikael thinks that they… do not quite know what to do with him.

He has not come in making any kind of fuss; in fact, drawing medical attention away from the people who actually need it is the last thing he wishes to do. But a miqo’te in full plate hunched into a corner, breathing raggedly with one hand splayed on the wall to support himself, is hard to ignore forever.

Ikael can feel the chirurgeons’ unease with his presence. It may be the dark crimson stains on black armour, or it may be the sharpness of his greatsword and the whispers of the Ishgardians. Either way, he does not blame them—he just wishes his breastplate will stop throttling him so he can get up and perhaps ask for some water.

At least they have not recognized him. They usually do not if he is not running around in furs and bracers, and besides; why would one search for a Warrior of Light amidst darkness?

Still, he… cannot seem to get up. He sat down, and now he feels so, so heavy. He is sweating and he is shivering and his gauntlets seem stuck to his palms, even if they weigh too much to move now that he has sat down.

He takes a deep breath and draws up his sword, planting it on the ground. He wants to try to get up, but suddenly the murmurs get louder, and the people around him start moving faster, their energies becoming more agitated.

Ikael shakes his head brusquely, blinking sweat out of his eyes. He cannot see. His hair is plastered to his forehead, and instead of sweeping over one eye, it is prickling into his vision and scraping over his skin. He _hates_ how it feels, for a brief, strange moment—like dust and uncomfortable thinness and sticky heat. He closes his eyes and tries to ignore it to gather himself together.

“Ser knight, you have to leave.” It is a gentle voice that is speaking, thin and around his level. A lalafell, then. “You… said you are not injured, and you are making the patients uneasy. Please. They need their rest.”

Ikael forces his eyes open to meet their gaze. “I am sorry,” he says through the sand in his throat. “I did not mean to… do… that. ‘m sorry but I cannot… I cannot get up.”

The lalafell sucks in a distressed breath, and darts their gaze around the wing. Ikael takes the opportunity to close his eyes again, unwittingly losing himself for a minute.

“Ser,” the lalafell whispers, “Please. I… I am sorry that I can’t help you, but my priorities lie with the patients here. If you truly cannot get up, I will have to find someone to escort you.”

“Shtola?” Ikael questions immediately, even if he knows she is not here. It is the first association his mind makes—she is safe, and kind.

Whatever response he would have received to that he will never know, because suddenly his body obeys his mind and he is hoisting himself up. The lalafell goes silent.

Huh. Ikael is surprised he has the strength, but he will not question it. He needs… shelter, and food.

“Inn,” he grunts as a request, and the lalafell points, seemingly relieved to have finally gotten him out of the way.

Ikael manages to drag himself to the inn, and then even inside, although he feels as if his armour is moving him more than he himself is.

“You look like you could use our special,” the innkeeper tells Ikael while he tries to pay attention. “Come back for food, alright, hon?”

Ikael does not tell her that the wood on her counter is making his gauntlets hurt, and instead drops his coin on it and stumbles upstairs.

~*~

“Apparently,” drawls a familiar sardonic voice, “You were causing a ‘disturbance _._ ’”

 _Thancred!_ Ikael thinks, but winces, because Thancred's voice is unnecessarily _loud_.

 _Shh_ , Ikael thinks at him.

“Ikael?” Thancred calls out, and Ikael winces once more. “Where are you? And what’s this pile of metal doing lying on the ground? Do try to clean up after yourself.”

“’m right here,” Ikael croaks, moving his tail so he does not have to move his head, and Thancred makes a surprised noise. The floor creaks, and then suddenly he is a lot closer, leaning down next to Ikael.

“Generally,” Thancred says, “One takes their armour _off_ before throwing it on the floor.”

Ikael did not throw anything on the floor. He simply… stopped standing up.

“Can I have water?” he mumbles, trying to have his eyes be not closed. They flutter open halfway.

Then he is being moved, suddenly, and he grimaces as that shifts the sensation of hot-cold sweating through his skin. His hair moves, brushed aside by what he recognizes as another person’s hand skin—an uncomfortable sensation, especially in his current state—and now there is an entire hand being pressed to his forehead.

“No, no,” he mumbles, making a face and trying to draw away. The hand follows him.

Ikael does not like this. “No!” he says again, dredging up strength out of nowhere to force the hand away with his own. He does not _like_ it!

“Apologies,” Thancred murmurs. “May I use the back of my hand?”

“Don’t touch me,” Ikael mumbles, upset. The feeling is fleeting, however, and he sinks back to the ground, exhausted from that sudden burst of energy.

“Alright.” Thancred's voice has taken on that soft quality to it that Ikael likes. “We need to take your plate mail off, first. You are overheated, to say the least, and I am certain it isn’t helping matters.”

Ikael is shifted around some more, and his armour gets tugged off. At some point he feels an odd touch on his skin and starts to cry, because it _isn’t_ someone else’s skin but it is acting like a hand, and that is wrong. Thancred murmurs a confused apology, he thinks, but does not seem to know how to not do what Ikael does not wish him to do. _Ikael_ does not even know. Ikael just wants to feel calmer and less dizzy.

Now his gambeson is still on, and he is not being moved anymore. It is still too hot—he tugs feebly at the ties.

Leather fingers gently move his own, and Ikael lets his hand drop, mumbling incoherently to himself. He tries to feel the floor, but it is too rough, so he settles for finding and petting his tail instead.

“Do you need something to—” Thancred's voice starts frowning as he cuts himself off. Ikael shimmies out of his gambeson and starts to get up, wobbling unsteadily on his feet.

“’m hungry,” he announces. “I’m going to… cook.”

“Are you,” says Thancred.

Ikael’s undershirt is sticking to his skin. He grabs at it until it comes off. “… Yes,” he replies after what he is sure is only a few seconds.

Thancred has somehow teleported to the other side of the room in those few seconds. He looks back at Ikael now, and raises an eyebrow.

“If you are going to strip, do it somewhere I cannot see,” he says. Ikael makes a rude gesture at him, tottering over to the kitchenette. He is going to _cook_. It is what he is good at. And if he is too hot, then he is sure he can make something… cold.

“You are going to burn yourself again,” Thancred mutters, suddenly moving towards Ikael very quickly. Ikael makes a noise of protest, folding up his arms, and lets himself be steered away. He cringes from the touch of the gloves, drawing up his shoulders, but they immediately move from his bare shoulders to his hips, which are still clothed. He relaxes a little.

“Ikael,” Thancred says in a very steady voice, “I need you to go take a shower for me, alright? I’ll have food for us when you get back.”

Ikael scoffs—that would require _far_ too much walking, and he thinks it is an overall better idea to simply stop moving and collapse somewhere again. He opens his mouth to say as much, but ends up simply staring blankly for a few seconds, idly blinking. What was he going to say? He forgets.

“Besides, you reek,” Thancred says as Ikael gazes at his collar. “If you are going to be ill, at least be less disgusting about it.”

That takes a few long moments to process, and then Ikael slowly looks up at Thancred, hurt—and relaxes when he sees his smile. Ikael smiles back, ears wiggling, and coos at him.

“Alright; no hugs.” Thancred steps back before Ikael can do just that, and Ikael nearly falls down. Thancred gives a short, surprised laugh, apparently amused by something, and takes off his gloves before gently steering Ikael towards a sliding door.

“I believe that is the bathing room,” he says with a smile in his voice. “Do try not to knock yourself unconscious. Do you have a change of clothes in your pack?”

Ikael shrugs, already trying to open the door. He makes a victorious sound when he finally gets it, and slips through.

~*~

It is highly tempting, from Ikael’s position at the bottom of the tub, to simply stay seated there and keep staring up at spray of water above him. His head is pounding, and everything is just hazy and warm and melting all around him. But there is an annoying rapping sound coming from the door which will not _cease_ , no matter how much Ikael internally orders it to. So that is how he eventually ends up stumbling up, pushing the glowing blue shard that deactivates the shower with a scowl.

He reaches for a towel and wraps it around his waist, then stands there shivering for a few moments. He is just about to sink to the ground again when the rapping gets louder and more irritating.

“ _Stop_ , yer givin’ me a headache,” Ikael groans, swinging into the door as he opens it. Thancred stands on the other side, holding something that smells nice and soft.

“Put these clothes on,” he instructs, handing the softness to a bewildered Ikael. “Take your time if you wish, but know that if you hurry, you will get food faster.”

Thancred walks away, and Ikael's nostrils flare at the smell of something warm and tasty. His stomach grumbles at him, a clear noise through the fog that it his mind, and Ikael reprimands it internally.

He eventually manages to get the clothes on more or less correctly, but he does not know what to do with the towel, so he simply clutches it to his chest as he exits. He scans for Thancred, and sees him sitting at the table, considering two steaming bowls of… something.

“Thancrrred,” Ikael mumbles, and takes a few brave steps forward to pause, think, and then drop his towel onto Thancred. “’m here.”

“So you are,” Thancred agrees, getting up. “Why don’t you take a seat? I will be with you in a moment.”

Ikael sits down and lays his head on the table, drawing his legs up until he is more or less comfortable. His eyes start to slide shut.

“Aaaand there we go with the near burning again.” Thancred's voice moves from far to very close in the time it takes for him to finish that sentence. Ikael feels his forearms being moved, and he mumbles a protest, frowning against the loud pulsing in his head. “No—I am sorry for moving you, Ikael, but that is a little too close to the base of the bowl than I am comfortable with. _There_ we go. Good miqo’te.”

Ikael blinks at Thancred hazily, now forced to sit upright again. He is tired. He wants to sleep. He wants his head to stop hurting. He wants… he wants to stop being so hot, and aching, and… and…

“Oh, come now.” Thancred's voice is gentle again. “There is no need for that, is there? I have brought you food; you are hungry, are you not? You certainly sounded hungry just now. Don’t you want to eat?”

“Wanna—wanna—want… I want…” Ikael hiccups. It is getting difficult to breathe—between his throat closing up and the uncomfortable heat stifling him, he is beginning to feel suffocated. He wheezes out a breath, trying to lessen his discomfort.

Something very soft and kind dabs against his cheeks, and then his eyes. “Everything is going to be better soon,” says Thancred. “Eating is not difficult. Is it difficult? It will help you feel better, will it not?”

Thancred is being… _so_ kind to him. Ikael needs to do his best for him—he will try to eat. He takes the spoon with a shaking hand, and sticks it in the bowl. Then, slowly, his mouth. _Chicken and gil bun_ , some half-functional part of his mind supplies.

“There we go.” Thancred smiles. “I knew you could do it.”

Ikael’s vision starts to blur once more. He… has not been taken care of like this in a long time—not completely. He has not felt… he has not felt lo—

“Th-thank…” Ikael’s voice is trembling, “…you.”

“Oh, it is quite alright! You are really no bother to care for. Very compliant, honestly, if you understand what is going on. You are a peaceful sort.”

Ikael does not understand why he would not comply, but he nods, and tries to finish his food so Thancred will smile at him again. It seems to work; in fact, Thancred _keeps_ smiling at him as they eat, and Ikael relaxes as a sort of soft pleasantness washes over him.

He gets up as soon as the urge to sink into his chair and doze off hits him. He has to shake himself to jar his mind back into something of use, but once that is done he pushes down on the table and manages to get up.

Thancred gets up as well. “What are you doing?” he asks, and Ikael’s resolve to wash the dishes starts crumbling at his gentle tone of voice.

“I-I-I’m going to wash up,” he mumbles, peering at Thancred cautiously.

“I can do that,” Thancred says, and keeps going before Ikael can protest. “I do not wish for you to over-exert or hurt yourself. I think that you should get some rest; you need it.”

Ikael’s brain stops working, and he nods dumbly, latching onto Thancred as he stumbles towards the bed. He really is… _exhausted_ by now, and sleep sounds so heavenly…

“That is all I have to do to get you to listen, is it?” Thancred sounds like he is talking to himself; Ikael does not pay him much mind as he coos and cuddles into the mattress. “Have I been doing it wrong this entire time?”

“Thanrrred,” Ikael mumbles tiredly, smiling when Thancred subsequently kneels down to him, “I… want…”

“Yes?” Thancred prompts, rearranging some of the blankets around Ikael. Ikael is less hot, now, but he still feels covered. How… strange.

“Mmhuhh,” he says, and stretches out to loosely drape an arm over Thancred's neck and drag him down.

He falls asleep with Thancred breathing calmly into his shoulder, completely pacified by his closeness.

~*~

Thancred waits until he is sure Ikael is completely asleep before carefully extricating himself, wincing when his back cracks upon straightening up. Ugh.

He scrutinizes Ikael’s countenance as he considers what to do next. Ikael’s skin is still flushed with fever, and he is still radiating an uncomfortable heat. Thancred considers removing the last thin layer of blanket, but decides against it. Feverish Ikael may be, but it is still highly likely that something like that would prevent him from sleeping at all.

Ah well. Thancred sighs, and goes to fetch a washcloth that he can wet. He will have to wash Ikael’s armour as well—the bloodstains on it are doubtless what made that lalafell alert Thancred in the first place. Thancred is not an expert on caring for armour; hopefully Ikael will be coherent enough to instruct him on the morrow.

He does what he can for it after cleaning up and tending to Ikael—placing the chilled cloth on Ikael’s forehead and opening the windows. When the blackness of the plate is no longer tarred by crimson, Thancred gives up and decides to turn in. He sets a glass of water by the bed before rearranging the blankets he had taken from Ikael, laying them on the floor next to him.

“Goodnight, my friend,” he whispers, and leans over to give Ikael a kiss on the forehead before settling in for the night.

~*~

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> "more or less correctly" means ikael's shirt is backwards.  
> 8>


	59. this time of year

It is cold in Ishgard. Thancred should have, he thinks to himself wryly, brought a better coat. He definitely has the money to purchase one now.

“Take one more step and I’ll fuckin’ kill him!”

It is also, Thancred muses, a little unfriendly in the streets at this hour.

“No killing necessary,” he says, holding up his hands. The two-gil cutthroat almost seems to take this as sign of aggression, and tightens his grip around the terrified child’s chest, pressing a dirty knife to an equally dirty neck. Thancred's eyes narrow ever-so-slightly as he tries to gauge how close the poor urchin is to panicking and getting himself killed.

“What is your name?” he asks him, taking a small step forward. “Mine is Thancred. I used to be not unlike you too long ago, you know.”

“Stay—stay back!” The knife draws a drop of blood, and the boy whimpers. Thancred stills, recalculating. The man is jumpy—it is a risk to race the reaction speed of his shaking hands and Thancred's own. Ever dangerous is the untrained hand, driven by fear and desperation.

“Alright, I am staying here,” Thancred says. “How about you, hm? What is your name?”

“’is name is Aurillion,” gasps the child. “An’ ’e’s been doin’ this fer moons! Please, mister, leave while ye still can! I’ll be a’right, I promise.”

“Shut your yapping mouth,” Aurillion hisses, jerking the child’s head back with his hair. The boy’s nostrils flare, but the noise he makes in response is stifled.

So Thancred has unwittingly stumbled upon something, then. But moons-long or not, the child still looks terrified. It is most likely, Thancred realizes with a sick taste in his mouth, that he has no reason to believe he will make it out of this scenario alive.

Thancred takes a step back. “Relax your grip,” he says, “And I will leave.”

He has no intention of leaving, but Aurillion does not know that.

“Don’t want you to leave,” Aurillion spits. “Want your money. On the ground, and kick it over.”

Thancred slowly detaches his coin purse, and equally slowly bends down to lay it on the ground. He can take it back in a few minutes.

“Kick—kick it over!” Aurillion repeats. He does not sound too certain of himself. “And—and no sudden movements!”

“I am not your usual kind of target, am I?” Thancred asks. “You are used to preying on the unwitting nobles who have the unfortunate luck to wander into the lower parts of the Brume, aren’t you? But no one who is armed as well. Certainly no one who is trained.”

Aurillion’s eyes dart to Thancred's most obvious knife, shining wicked and sharp against his thigh. “Kick it _over_!” he repeats shrilly.

“Certainly.” Thancred kicks the coin purse over, and uses the precious fractions of the second in which Aurillion’s eyes dart to it to throw a knife at his hand.

It hits its mark, and Aurillion’s own knife drops with a clatter—Thancred barely has to snarl, “ _Run!”_ before the child is darting away.  

“ _Fury!_ ” Aurillion hisses through clenched teeth, reaching down to pick up his knife once more. “You’ll fuckin’ pay for that, you will. _Gods_ … Come back here, you little brat!”

The last sentence is yelled after the boy, who has stopped a few yalms away to hover uncertainly. Thancred notes his position, takes two steps forward, and crosses blades with Aurillion.

Aurillion fights desperate and brutal, but he is wounded, and Thancred is faster and far more skilled. Aurillion is disarmed in seconds, and has Thancred's knife in his chest—the one he has been eyeing oh-so-warily—a moment later.

Thancred steps back and turns to the boy, leaving Aurillion to fall to his knees with a gurgle.

“Go to House Fortemps,” he says, kneeling down. “Tell the Count everything about has been going on, and what Aurillion has been doing, and you will have help.”

“Mister!” says the boy with wide eyes. That is all the warning Thancred gets before he hears a gunshot, startlingly loud.

He whips around, and… Aurillion is on the ground, eyes wide and lifeless, a gun in his hand and a hole in his head.

“You’re welcome, darling,” says a familiar voice, and Thancred's gaze flicks upwards to see Ikael, clad in his monk furs, ambling towards them and swinging a pistol in his hand.

“Come to check on the local wildlife?” he asks, eyeing Aurillion’s body. “They’re a might frightful this time of year.”

“In the Holy See? They always are,” Thancred returns, straightening up. “Go,” he tells the boy, and that is all the instruction he needs before he runs off.

“Are you wounded?” Ikael asks, eyes raking over Thancred shrewdly. Thancred hums, rolling his shoulders.

“… A scratch,” he discloses, tilting his chin up. “I will see to it.”

“Promptly?” Ikael raises an eyebrow. “Very well, then. Do you have a room for the night?”

A snowflake falls on Thancred's eyelash. He breathes in, then breathes out with a shiver.

“Come.” Ikael is already turning away. Thancred follows wordlessly. “Gibrillont gives me a discount because I covered one of his waiter’s shifts for a week. It was no trouble, honestly—I find waiting tables almost calming, in a way.”

Thancred has known a few waiters, and takes a moment to boggle at the way Ikael’s mind works. Then they are striding forward against the biting wind, and soon The Forgotten Knight is looming over them.

Ikael has apparently already paid for a room, because he orders—with a smile—a couple of meals to be sent up. Thancred follows him when they head upstairs, glancing around. It is a dark place, dour and a little depressing, but Ikael does not seem to be affected by its atmosphere in the slightest.

Ikael unlocks the door to his room with a small hum, and Thancred immediately goes to light the fireplace. He exhales through clenched teeth as he sits in front of it, hands outstretched.

“Coat off, for now,” Ikael instructs, voice getting fainter as he goes to fetch something. “Let me see that ‘scratch.’”

Thancred acquiesces, knowing it would be fruitless to argue. He shivers once he slips his coat off, sliding it on the back of a chair before sitting down. He should get one with sleeves, one of these days.

“I have extra furs if you are cold.” Ikael kneels down next to him, now holding a wet cloth. “Let me see?”

It really is more of a scratch than a cut, honestly. Thancred obliges, and twists his arm towards Ikael so he can see the thin red line on his tricep.

Ikael starts to daub clinically, and presses his other hand to Thancred's chest. Immediately, Thancred feels an unnatural warmth spread through him—some magick that he, of course, cannot use.

“Thank you,” he says. Ikael smiles at him, nods.

“Just shifting some of our energies,” he murmurs, and if he is going to start talking nonsense about realigning chakras and the like, Thancred _will_ tune him out. “I am not cold, so it is no bother.”

He dabs something liquid and odd-smelling onto Thancred's arm. It stings, but Thancred is grateful. In no time he is easily wrapping up the wound, and it is not too long afterwards that their food arrives.

“Roast karakul and rice, hm?” Ikael mutters. He fishes in his pack for a moment before sprinkling something on the meals. Thancred watches, amused.

“What is that deviant concoction?” he inquires.

“Salt,” says Ikael. “Mix well.” He hands Thancred one of the plates before taking the other for himself.

They eat in comfortable silence, Ikael occasionally poking the firepit to coax a few more embers to ignite. He heaps a few furs on Thancred when they are done, making sure he is warm enough thrice over before heading down with their dishes.

“I will go to House Fortemps on the morrow,” he announces when he comes back, “And see to the situation you intercepted.”

Thancred nods. “Aye.”

Ikael smiles suddenly, warm as the fire. “But now we rest,” he says, reaching over to rearrange what looks like a coeurl hide on Thancred's right shoulder. Thancred hums in agreement.

Now, they rest.

~*~


	60. worried

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> mild spoilers for 4.3

“I reached him.” Alisaie sounds surprised. “I reached him before you did.”

Ikael jogs over, glancing down at the still form by their feet. “You sure did,” he says, squeezing her shoulder. “Good job! That’s one thing you mages have on your side: range…”

He lightly steps over the body to search through the desk standing behind it. The surface is clear, all the drawers are empty…

Nothing here. Ikael taps his fingers thoughtfully on the polished wood before heading to check the potted plants. People hide their secret documents in the strangest locations.

“What are you doing?” Alisaie’s voice is poignant and curious. “Are you investigating a _plant_?”

Ikael straightens up, blinking. “Oh,” he says, glancing back at her with a smile, “Forgive me! I am used to doing these sorts of things alone. Ah—the desk was empty, so I am looking here. Try his study? Ideally we will be out before anyone notices we are here.”

Alisaie nods, and vanishes through a doorway. Ikael keeps looking at the plants, considering.

A few minutes of soil-scented searching later, and his hands are empty. He rises with a sigh, and turns to consider the bookshelves. It is _ridiculous_ , but people can also be… ridiculous…. Wait.

“This is ridiculous,” he says out loud, and pushes in the single blue spine that has no text on it.

For a moment, nothing happens. Then there is the tired, groaning whine of a mechanism that has not been oiled for a while, and the bookshelf slides to the side.

Ikael shakes his head. “Ridiculous,” he repeats in low mutter, and reaches into the small compartment the bookshelf has revealed.

His fingers close around a scroll of parchment, there is a distant snap, and the next thing Ikael knows he is lying face-up on the ground, a sharp, throbbing pain in his ankle.

“Hhhh,” he wheezes painfully, drawing up his knee and slowly falling to his side. The wooden panel on the floor that had risen up to strike him slowly sinks back down.

“Ikael!” Alisaie comes rushing into the room. “Are you alright? Good gods.”

Ikael feels the familiar—albeit rushed—tingle of a healing spell, and the pain loses its sharpness.

“’m alright,” he squeaks—and immediately clears his throat. “Ahem. I’m fine, Alisaie. And I found his notes! I think.”

He unravels the scroll he is holding and brings it up to his face. “Yep! This is strange and incomprehensible; must be the formula we’re looking for. Hurray!” he tacks on at the end, because she seems distressed.

His attempt at cheer does not seem to have worked. Alisaie’s youthful face is marred by a frown, and Ikael would get up and brush it off—maybe offer her a cookie—but the dull twinge in his ankle is distracting. He has to deal with that first.

He sits up, pushing himself to stand on one foot with minimum difficulty. Alisaie is still frowning at him, so he hands her the parchment.

She glances it over, then nods and pockets it. “Let us be off, then,” she says. Her gaze drifts to Ikael’s ankle. “What happened?”

“Triggered a trap, I think.” He nods at the panel that had attacked him. “Sprained my ankle, but didn’t break it.”

“You…” Alisaie draws her sword, then spins it around and holds it out to Ikael. “You cannot walk properly.”

Ikael blinks, bemused, then smiles. “Alisaie,” he says fondly, gently pushing her hand away, “Do not do that. I will be fine—and I have a dwelling to go to where I can rest up. I can teleport there.”

“… A dwelling.” Alisaie slowly withdraws her hand, then slips her sword back into her belt. “Of course. And _I_ am left to deliver this to our gracious client, I assume? Of course.”

Ikael tilts his head, slowly rotating his foot. Considers her.

“I will be back in a few days,” he says in a gentle tone. Alisaie twitches. “And I can deliver the formula, if you wish.”

“I can do it myself,” Alisaie replies sharply. Ikael’s eyelids lower a fraction.

“Of course,” he says, giving her a small smile. “I am not patronizing you. Worry not; I will be back as soon as I can, alright?”

He closes his eyes and starts to teleport, homing in on the small apartment he had gifted Gaill and Simeon. Hopefully, they have food. If not, Ikael will have to—

“Where are you going?” Alisaie asks. Her voice is still sharp, but it has a cautious edge that threatens to break. Ikael opens his eyes.

“I bought an apartment for my retainers,” he says, leaning against the desk. “In the Shroud.”

Alisaie says nothing for the moment, so Ikael shifts more of his weight to the desk and keeps speaking.

“I… will make dinner,” he offers, drumming his fingers on the wood. “Gaill will be out, I think, but Simeon is not doing much these days, so I can get him to buy groceries if we do not have any. I am thinking to make something nice and warm; perhaps sautéed chanterelle? I like mushrooms, and I am sure we have some cheese to melt.”

Were this any other situation, it would be an odd time and place to bring up humdrum little topics such as what he will have for dinner, of all things. But Ikael knows what he is doing, and surely enough, Alisaie seems to relax. Ikael smiles reassuringly, easing himself onto the desk. She joins him a few seconds later.

“… Mushrooms?” she enquires, almost hesitantly.

Ikael nods. “Aye. If not chanterelle, perhaps portobello. Do you like portobello?” He turns to look at her.

“I… hardly think my own preferences matter when it comes to your dinner,” Alisaie says after only a moment’s pause. Ikael smiles warmly.

“Come now, I can always pop by to eat with you. After all, Simeon is hardly good company.” He winks. “We have to get out of here now, however, yeah? Go on home, and I will see you in a few bells, Alisaie.”

He ruffles her hair, and begins to teleport again. This time, he finishes his cast uninterrupted.

~*~

“I hope you really do not mind mushrooms,” Ikael declares as he wobbles in with two platefuls of food balanced on the arm that is not clutching his crutch. Alisaie looks up from where she is hunched over in her seat, blinking rapidly. She looks so small and lonely hunkered down like that, poor thing. “I sautéed them in butter, though! And if you do not like it, I will make something here, yeah?”

“By the Twelve, slow down!” Alisaie stands up hurriedly, nearly knocking over the solitary mug on her table. “Here—let me take those…”

She reaches for the plates, and Ikael lets her take them with a smile. He is very good at balancing things, especially plates, but he does not say so out loud. Instead he watches as she takes extra care with the dishes, eventually setting them down directly next to each other.  

She glances at him and pulls out a chair, staying behind it stubbornly until Ikael chuckles and hops over with a “Thank you, lovely.”

 “I’ll get you some water,” she mutters, and is off and back with a glass. Ikael thanks her, smiling.

They begin to eat in contented silence, Alisaie shooting him occasional glances. He wiggles his ears at her each time she does so, and after a few minutes of this gets a smile.

“The food is wondrous, of course,” Alisaie pipes up, seemingly out of nowhere. “I am almost sorry to deprive Simeon of his meal.”

Ikael laughs. “Sorry bastard can cook for himself,” he says. “But—ah. I made some for him anyways. He is off eating in his room like a grump, most likely.”

Alisaie smiles. “Of course,” she says quietly, and Ikael wiggles his ears at her once more just to see that smile grow. It works, and earns him a laugh.  

“I don’t—” She looks down, setting her utensils aside. “I… do not understand,” she says at last. “How can you be so cheerful? You do not seem worried in the slightest. I admit that I… might have cast an unfair judgement at first, but I realized that… you would not be like that. I know you care. I just do not know how, despite it all, you can still find the will to smile.”

Ikael leans back in his chair, putting his fork down as well. Then he picks it back up to eat some more food, because he is hungry.

The action earns him an afterthought of a smile, and Alisaie’s gaze strays to his plate. Ikael chews another bite before answering.

“I _am_ worried,” he says at last. “I always am. About Alphinaud, about Thancred, about Y'shtola. About you. About Krile. Even, vaguely, about Urianger, whatever he is doing nowadays.”

He shrugs, taking another bite. “But I have learned that angry urges do not become me. I will be restless, yes, but nothing can be done of things that are not under my control. Such is the way of things.”

Alisaie looks down for a second, and then picks up her fork once more. “Indeed,” she says quietly. “I will… try to understand that. Knowing something is true does not make it easier to bear.”

Ikael reaches over to squeeze her shoulder. “I will be here,” he says sympathetically. “At least you have me, yeah? Or food, I should say.”

He winks, and she laughs again, relaxing minutely. Ikael smiles, going back to his food.

“I think I will be heading back now,” he says once they have finished eating. “To catch an early night’s rest, mayhaps. Unless you wish for me to stay here? We can cuddle, braid each other’s hair—”

“You are _not_ serious.” Alisaie sounds flatly horrified, although Ikael is sure she secretly wants to cuddle. Everyone does. “ _No_. I am not Thancred, thank you very much.”

“Hm.” Ikael does not mentioned that Thancred had said something very similar, the first time Ikael had asked him. Ah well—he will get to her one day, he is sure of it. He smiles brilliantly. “In that case, I must bid you a good night. Sleep well, yeah? I’ll be back to make breakfast.”

He reaches over to give her a quick hug, but she squeezes tightly for a brief second, and Ikael stays until she is the one to break away. Then he gathers up the plates, and shoots her one last smile before teleporting away.

~*~


	61. literature

“How do you spell ‘comeuppance?’” Ikael asks.

Alisaie narrows her eyes minutely. “If this is an attempt to include me by asking simple questions a child could answer, it is not working,” she says. “On top of which, I am not Alphinaud.”

“It isn’t,” Ikael says, a little hurt. “I just do not know how to spell it.”

He looks down as Alisaie looks up, and crosses out the word. He writes “a stern talking-to” instead, and hesitates on the hyphen.

“It is alright,” he calls out, deciding to include it. Perhaps it will make him look smarter. “I will use other words.”

Alisaie ventures over, and Ikael glances up. She smiles at him a bit hesitantly.

“I apologize,” she says. “My rudeness is uncalled for. What are you writing?”

Ikael smiles back, tail wagging, and shows her the paper. “A letter to my retainer,” he says as she looks it over with a crease in her brow. “He’s had some bad business with a sale gone a little nasty. Poor thing; I’ll bake him a pie after this mess is sorted out.”

“‘He will get comeuppance?’” Alisaie reads out. “Ah—I think it would be ‘He will get _his_ comeuppance,’ if you wish to write that after all.”

Ikael gives a little shrug, still smiling. “I will stick to simpler words which I know how to use,” he says. “You will have to forgive me; I have no Sharlayan education as the rest of you do.”

She sits down next to him, and he wiggles his ears at her before going back to his writing. What kind of pie does Gaill like? … Cherry? Ikael thinks it is cherry. He scribbles down another line about it, just in case he wants something else.

“An education is not quite a measure of intelligence,” Alisaie muses, folding her hands on the table. Ikael makes a noise of agreement.

“True, but it certainly helps in others’ perception of you,” he replies. “I know I do not have a reputation for... being very book-smart. Hah—in one case,” A wry smirk tugs at his lips, “Quite the opposite. But some people are simply bound within their self-made frame of reference.”

He chuckles, shaking his head, and tells Gaill not to eat the whole pie in one sitting. It will be bad for his stomach, not to mention his diet.

“You will regret it in the morning when you will feel as if you are bootshining yourself instead of the training dummy!” he mutters, writing that down as well. Alisaie gives him an odd look.

Ikael adds a few exclamation points, and then a happy face so as not to sound overly alarming. Alisaie says, “May I ask you something?”

“Go ahead.” Ikael scratches out one of the exclamation points. Five is a bit too many, perhaps.

“Did you learn to read and write in your tribe?” Alisaie asks. “I do not know terribly much about miqo’te, but it was of my understanding that such things are only taught when strictly necessary.”

Ikael hums, putting his pen down. He pulls his ankles up to the seat of his chair and wiggles a little, getting comfortable.

“They are,” he says in response to Alisaie’s question. “However, each tribe is different, and there are additional city miqo’te who do not ascribe to tribal rules. It is important to read ledgers and keep track of stocks in Ul’dah, for example. My tribe, on the other hand, was rather traditional.”

He tilts his head. Alisaie is looking at him acutely, paying attention—he smiles at her faintly.

“My mother was more scholarly than most,” he explains. “Partly out of necessity, and partly out of interest. She traded for thaumaturgy tomes when she could, and she had a basic knowledge of conjury that earned her a few additional coins when she needed them. She made sure I knew how to read and write, even if I never quite got good while I was with my tribe.”

He chuckles. “When I arrived at Ul’dah, I put more effort in learning my letters. Which is why my handwriting is at least somewhat legible.” He flashes her a grin. “You would not want to see the chocobo scratch I put out when I was your age.”

“I almost want to!” Alisaie laughs, and his grin widens. “Did she teach you any magic? You say you do not find yourself attuned to it, but…”

Ikael taps the pads of his fingers on the table as he thinks. “A little,” he says. “Very small things, like how to conjure a spark or dull a papercut. I later learned how to perform some physical magicks to help with what I know of monk energy displacement—how to rechannel it towards different effects, mostly, or manage my qi.”

“So I have heard,” Alisaie says with a smile. “Or rather, so _others_ have heard, and been vocal in exactly how _much_ they have heard.”

Ikael snorts. “Well, then they should not ask questions they do not wish to know the answer to,” he says, arching an eyebrow. “If they get to talk about the flow of aether from a tree for five bells, then I can talk about punching people.”

Alisaie laughs, and he does as well, giggling and picking up his pen once more. “If you truly wish to ever shut me up,” he says, scrolling down his letter to see where he left off, “Ask me about arcanima. I have absolutely no idea how numbers function if there is more than one. Do not come at me with that sorcery.”

Alisaie grins. “Twenty-four. Sixty-three. Eighteen.”

Ikael clutches at his head. “You are killing me,” he says.

“The square root of zero,” Alisaie announces.

Ikael does not know what a ‘square root’ is. It does not sound very practical. “That is it! I am dead,” he declares, flopping his head down on the table like a ragdoll. Alisaie giggles overlong at this, and he grins.

“I shall leave you to your letter-writing, then,” Alisaie declares after a few minutes. “Perhaps I shall… write my own. For therapeutic reasons, if not practicality.”

Ikael nods, making an agreeing noise—he thinks that sounds like a good idea. He is nearly done with his letter.

 

 _And do not let Simeon eat your pie_ , he writes, _or he will get his commupence._

_Love,_

_Ikael :)_

~*~


	62. it wasn't very effective

Thancred is first aware that something is wrong because he can feel it in the air.

Or perhaps not in the air. That is a bit of ridiculous place to put one’s feelings, is it not? The ground, then—Thancred can feel it in the soil. In the shadows.

He stops walking, checks his knives. The feeling shifts, becomes more urgent, and Thancred has his daggers out in less than a moment. The blades flash as he brings them up, and it is a good thing he did, because in the next half-second there is a dark, violent form hurtling towards him.

His mystery attacker, however, seems to adapt to the sudden appearance of steel, because they do not delay their trajectory. Before Thancred knows what is happening, he is being slammed to the ground, a pair of strong legs locked around his neck.

A thigh shifts before Thancred has a chance to breath, and he is about to drive his smaller dagger up into his attacker’s side when—

“Thancred!” The voice that calls his name is cheerful, surprised, and obnoxiously familiar.

Thancred can breathe a moment later when the legs around his neck suddenly loosen, and then the heavy weight that has been bearing down on his body shifts, easing off of him.

“I didn’t recognize you!” says Ikael’s voice, but Thancred squints at the only somewhat familiar figure when a hand extends down towards him.

It _is_ Ikael, Thancred realizes, a few seconds of quick scanning and an (overly, obnoxiously energetic) hand up later. But he looks… Thancred squints. Is that an eye pat—no, wait. Is that _Thancred's_?

“My thanks for not bludgeoning me to death with your groin,” Thancred says, brushing dirt off his coat. “That would be a rather embarrassing way to go.”

Ikael grins. Thancred can see his _teeth_ , at least. “I hope it is the only way you will go!” Ikael exclaims. Thancred does not have a chance to figure out what in the hells _that_ means before Ikael is rambling on. “Oh, I am so sorry for attacking you! I thought you were a bandit! I can’t see very well with this thing—I think the tree was in my way.”

Thancred shoots a reproachful glance at the twisted trunk reaching up high near them. Its branches are spread out in such a matter that it _would_ make it difficult to see past, were one incompetent enough to position themselves in such a way as to hinder their line of sight.

Thancred looks at Ikael, who smiling happily at him and rocking a little on the balls of his feet. “That wasn’t terribly clever of you,” Thancred says. “There is a reason why _I_ am the one who does the ambushing, yes?”

“Are you hurt?” Ikael frowns in concern (at least, Thancred thinks he does) and reaches forward to touch gloved fingers to Thancred's chest, pressing along his sternum. “Oh! Good. Only your _pride_ is wounded, then. No matter; I can bake a pride pie.”

“I do not need one of your ridiculous overly-charitable sugary pacifiers,” Thancred sniffs.

“Those are a _lot_ of fancy words! Sharlayan education paying off, yeah?”

“Some of us are educated,” Thancred says, watching Ikael as he walks around and bends down to check the grass. “Which spurs me to tell you: if you are looking for tracks, you are doing it wrong. Whoever it is you are hunting did not stop to rub the sole of their boot against the grass for a full minute before resuming their path.”

Ikael straightens up. “I am… not doing that, silly!” he says, half a beat too late. “Ah… this thing is terrible for depth perception. How do you manage?”

“Artfully,” Thancred replies. “Although, while we are on the subject, might I ask—why in the name of sanity are you dressed like that? And did you tie your ears down? They look smaller, although that is not saying much.”

“I did!” Said ears wiggle back and forth. “And I wanted to see what it would be like to fight with impairments! So I impaired myself.” He spins around, kicking his legs up at Thancred, who notices what had felt so off about his form a minute ago.

“Block heels,” he realizes as Ikael does his strange, somewhat graceful pirouette. “Interesting. Life must be so _very_ boring for you at this point in time, then.”

“Rude.” Ikael sticks his tongue out playfully. “But yes—it feels different, yeah? Yugiri recommended I try training as the ninjas do for a while, to become lighter on my feet. It is working out quite nicely, I think. Although not helping my bandit-locating abilities.”

Thancred sighs. He has some time to spare, he thinks as he crouches down. And besides, Ikael _did_ promise him a pie.

“Lemon,” he reminds, and Ikael gives an excited little squeak before kneeling down next to him. “Alright—so what you want to watch for are any unnatural depressions in the spongy areas…”

~*~


	63. nightmare

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> Warning for: general nightmare-flavoured stuff, rash violence, some blood, description of a facial injury as it is caused, and a short, temporary scene where a character gets killed. please mention if you want me to warn for anything else.  
> Please skip to the first ~*~ if you do not want to read that part.

Thancred is a restless sleeper, when he does manage to catch a moment of respite. It goes against everything—everything he was taught, everything they have _been_ through—to relax so completely, to be so utterly vulnerable in unconsciousness.

It also means he usually does not dream.

Tonight appears to be an exception. Thancred is staring down—down, _down_ —at the face of a friend. Green eyes that are much too trusting gaze up at him, somehow managing to seem both acres away and far, far too close. Thancred curls a hand underneath his chin, tipping it up.

“Thancred,” breathes Ikael, and Thancred _snarls_ , fury suddenly boiling up in him from the one word. He backhands Ikael across the face, and his head snaps to the side from the force of the blow.

When he slowly looks up again, there is blood trickling past his lips. Thancred grins, his lips stretching unnaturally wide, and wonders if he should do it again.

He reaches out to Ikael’s chin once more, knocking it up with his knuckles, but then seals his hand around his throat. He cocks his head.

“Thancred,” Ikael repeats, more of a wheeze than a word, and Thancred begins to tighten his fingers. It is worth it, he thinks, to feel Ikael try and gasp for air beneath his fingers, to see his chest twitch from breath it can barely hold.

But, alas. Thancred _has_ always had a flare for the dramatic, so he loosens his grip. “Any last words?” he inquires. The words drip like poison, casual as ever.

His fingertips begin to drag up Ikael’s face, mocking in their slowness. He slots a nail into the scar running down his cheek, and then sharply slices downward, re-opening the years-old wound. He wonders idly if he can make Ikael cry, if his tears will mingle with his blood.

“I know this is not you,” Ikael says softly, something kind and gentle in his eyes, and he is making Thancred _furious_ again—Thancred bares his teeth and _throttles_ him, squeezing around that scrawny little neck. He will crush the _life_ out of this infuriating little kitten.

Ikael’s eyes flutter rapidly, rolling up. A few more seconds and he will be dead; Thancred can feel it. Ikael opens his mouth—to cry for help? Beg for mercy? Thancred hopes it is the latter. Ikael rasps, breathes, whispers—

_“I forgive you.”_

—And Thancred _kills_ him, snaps his neck before he can even register the action. Ikael’s body collapses, and Thancred is left staring down at it, wondering what it was exactly that made him lose control.

~*~

Thancred awakens with a nasty jerk, bolting upright. He looks at his hands immediately—and they are normal, unclawed, only marked by familiar calluses and a thin, fading cut from a week ago. Thancred chokes out what could be a dry sob, dropping his head back against his bedframe.

He closes his eyes as he pants softly into the still air of his room, waiting for his heart to calm. It takes a few minutes, but eventually he can no longer hear its unsteady beating.

He opens his eyes. So tonight it was Ikael, then. Last time it was Lyse.

After a few fleeting moments of indecision, Thancred slides out of his bed. He pauses just as he is about to leave his room, and goes to his wardrobe, sifting through it before pulling out a long-sleeved sleep shirt and slipping it on. It is hot, but… well. Soft fabric is better than skin, as far as Thancred knows.

The stone floor of the hallway is cold to his bare feet. Thancred wonders for a moment what it would feel like had he another mind in his skull; whether the smoothness of the stone would bother him. Or perhaps it would be soothing in its carved flatness?

That train of thought is gentle enough for Thancred to gnaw on until he reaches Ikael’s room. He raises the back of his hand to the door and makes three sharp raps, so Ikael knows it is him. He wonders, as he waits for an answer, if he is asleep.

Ikael probably _is_ asleep, Thancred decides after barely giving the thought a moment’s consideration. This usually does not happen—Ikael is the one who traipses into people’s rooms for comfort, not him. Thancred has not even _considered_ the possibility that he might be sleeping—foolish, since it is the middle of the night. He has been too engrossed in his own clouded mind, trying futilely to scrub away the poison clinging to its walls. How damn inconsiderate of him. Ikael will never get upset at him for this, so Thancred must—

The door opens. Thancred blinks as he is greeted by Ikael’s hair, unkept and falling over most of his face.

“Thancred?” Ikael’s voice is sleep-soft and even scratchier than usual. Thancred feels the word like a knife in his heart, the scene in his dream echoing it in his mind’s eye. He watches as Ikael drags a sleeved hand up to his head, pushing his bangs out of the way.

“Come in,” Ikael mutters, stepping back to give Thancred room. Thancred closes the door behind him, looking back only when he hears the bedframe quietly creak.

Ikael is sitting cross-legged on his bed, fully clothed and covered. It is the only way he can truly sleep, he told Thancred once. He… is even wearing socks, although they do not seem to match. Thancred briefly wonders, out of a lack of any other thought he is willing to cling to, whether Ikael is colour-blind.

… That would explain a lot, actually.

“Thancred? Why are you staring at my foot?” Sock-clad toes wiggle at him. Thancred looks up sharply, and feels a fresh shard of memory carve through his chest at the way Ikael is looking at him.

He shakes his head, walking forward. He drops onto the bed on his knees. Ikael makes a concerned noise, opening his arms, and Thancred barely registers the worry creasing his brow before he accepts the embrace, slumping against Ikael in exhaustion.

“ _Ohh_ , no,” Ikael murmurs, but he says it soothingly. The hands that are gently stroking down Thancred's back are anything but harried and anxious. Thancred is barely aware of the touch, so badly is he shaking right now, but he can feel it slowly leeching away the corruption in his mind, leaving him vulnerable and intact.

“It is alright, sweetheart,” Ikael says. “I… do not know what you need to hear right now, but know that you are safe and very loved. Just… let it out, yeah? I promise you will feel better.”

Thancred _is_ letting it out, although the moment Ikael says _sweetheart_ , any will he might have held to block out his heart crumbles. Ikael is a solid weight supporting him in all ways, surprisingly steady in the role of comforter as he murmurs to Thancred and holds him securely. It is after Thancred's breathing evens out against Ikael’s neck that Thancred draws back an ilm, closing his eyes and taking a steadying breath before resting his temple against Ikael’s collarbone.

“Are you alright?” Ikael asks softly. “Do you want to speak, or just lie down?”

Thancred presses first his right, then his left eye into Ikael’s shoulder to dry them. He sighs. “Just lie down, I think,” he mutters, wondering how to ask Ikael to do what he wishes him to do.

He feels Ikael nod, and then they are arranging themselves to lie on the bed. Ikael gives Thancred a pillow from his pile. Thancred watches him as he pulls up the blankets, tucking them both in.

Thancred makes a low noise at Ikael to get his attention. He ducks his head a little, feeling perhaps a _bit_ embarrassed to ask, even if he knows Ikael will not mock him. It turns out he needn’t have worried, however, as Ikael immediately shuffles closer to him, bringing up an arm to gently pull Thancred's head to his chest and moving a hand to stroke slowly through his hair.

“… Thank you,” Thancred mumbles after a moment, for a brief instant stumbling sharply into obligatory reciprocation. But Ikael shushes him firmly, and the feeling vanishes. Thancred just barely smiles—and his heart relaxes at the small movement, the tension leeching out of him at the realization that he is… him. That Ikael is fine.

That Thancred will, in fact, be all right.

~*~


	64. tea

Y'shtola does not know when Ikael had started to use endearments. It seems, nowadays, that he cannot go a day without a _darling_ , or _dear,_ or even _sweetheart_ , if he is feeling particularly saccharine. Never… _love_ , though. And is it less common to hear him use such words in place of names? Or is that balance shifting as well?

She would gossip to Thancred about it, but he is not here.

“You do not take your tea without sugar,” Ikael says. It is more of a statement than anything, a sure and confident conviction that Y'shtola has never once in her life sipped a cup of tea without at least a spoonful of sugar in it. Ikael is watchful of people’s tastes, she knows, although she cannot decide whether that is because he cares, or because his desire to please others borders on desperation.  

Perhaps both. Y'shtola takes a sip of her coffee, and only just resists making a face. As it is, her nose twitches, and her ears flatten for half a second. She can tell Ikael notices, because he draws in a soft, worried breath and quietly pokes a sugar cube towards her.

“You are correct,” she tells him. “’Tis coffee, in fact. I have decided to try it for some regrettable reason; it is a heinous thing without any milk or sweetening. Far too bitter for my tastes.”

“Do you want me to get you milk?” Ikael shifts in his seat. The worriedness in his movements seeps into his voice as well. “I can ask for some when they come by to take my order. Or… now, if you want.”

For a moment, Y'shtola briefly entertains the idea of Ikael barging into the kitchens to anxiously demand she be brought milk. The thought makes the corner of her mouth twitch, and she shakes her head.

“I shall wait,” she says as her fingers slip the sugar cube into her cup.

Ikael nods, relaxing somewhat. He starts to glance around. Y'shtola’s earlier musings come to mind once more—he had called the place _lovely_ when he had arrived, ten minutes late. _Lovely_ , and _Oh, I’m so sorry I’m late! You’re such a dear for waiting for me._

Is she? Again a question of whether Ikael is being genuine, or whether he is forcing himself to be genial in an attempt to stay any potential wrath directed his way. Perhaps, once again, it is both.

“Shtola,” Ikael says softly, and she glances up. “Are you okay? You seem lost in thought.”

She smiles, the novelty of him calling her by her familiar name easing the expression into something softer than it usually is. Another recent development, and a good one, she thinks.

“I am merely contemplating the nuances of our circumstance, Ikael,” she says. “You have not been here before, I take it? A pity; I was going to ask for a recommendation.”

Ikael laughs softly. “You cannot simply ask me for a ‘recommendation’ every time we go out to eat,” he chides pleasantly. “And not in front of the waiter, please! Oh, that was embarrassing… poor thing…”

“I simply wanted your honest opinion on the dishes,” Y'shtola returns, although she smirks faintly at the memory. “Not to mention, it is quite a sport to watch your inner culinarian’s taste battle your manners.”

Ikael tuts in feigned shock. “Bad Shtola,” he scolds, and grins. “I cannot believe you.”

The waitress comes over, having noticed Ikael by now. He smiles at her, all charm, and requests the cinnamon bun and honeyed tea, thank you very much. Y'shtola asks her for a rolanberry sweet tart, because she knows they have those, and a dollop of cream in her coffee.

The waitress leaves with their orders and Y'shtola’s coffee, and now they are sitting in peaceful silence. Y'shtola is no avid pursuer of small talk, and in his most honest state, Ikael does not speak overmuch. If he has nothing to fret about, that is.

Still. Y'shtola breaks the silence with a curious question, because it has been tickling the back of her mind since Ikael proposed this get-together.

“I am curious,” she begins, and Ikael turns his head to look at her, “Of why I was the one you chose to invite to this outing. Surely you could have convinced Thancred to delay a moment to have tea with you?”

Ikael breathes out what could be a chuckle, were it more than a breath. “I do not mistake the urgency of my desire for companionship to be the same as any mission of ours,” he says. “Besides, you are curious about our latest terror, are you not? I thought I might as well be exhausted as a source of knowledge.”

 Y'shtola wonders if Ikael even notices the memory of bitterness in his words, since his tone is genial enough. Most probably not; it is one thing for the mind to understand the truth of one’s situation, and quite another for the heart to forget. Ikael, for all that his mind has hardened over the years to the reality of their circumstances, lives in his heart.

“I think I am glad to speak with you of mundane things,” Y'shtola replies, because she has not become “Shtola” from addressing his mind.

Ikael seems surprised, bless him. He, even, has not yet figured how he works. Perhaps that is for the best, Y'shtola thinks as he flushes lightly. It would not do for him to stress overmuch about even more things that are barely in his control.

“So,” she says once they have their food, “I will admit I was always curious; just how did you decide on becoming a culinarian?”

And Ikael, for some reason, laughs.

~*~


	65. cushions

 

“Hello, Hien!” Ikael calls as he politely barges in without any warning. “I’ve brought you a few things!”

Hien looks up with a startled expression—one that Ikael does not see for very long when one of his cushion stacks starts to slide to the side. He manages to catch it, and begins to set everything down.

“Well, one thing,” he elaborates as Hien gets up in a bit of a rush and starts to help him unload. “Oh—thank you, lovely—I suppose it is multiples of one thing, isn’t it? Does that count as more than one thing?”

“Whatever did you—where did you get all of these from?” Hien is not answering Ikael’s question, which is alright, he supposes. He will ask him again later.

“Oh, I bought them!” Ikael replies cheerily. He debates for a moment whether or not to give in to the urge to simply dump the cushions on the ground and launch himself onto them. His tail twitches at the thought.

“Speaking of which… may I stay here for a couple of days? I… aha… I need to do a few odd jobs, I think.”

He is bad at avoiding the aetheryte fee keepers, and he feels terrible for ever trying, even when he inevitably gets caught and scolded. But he needs to _get around_ , somehow… even if his coin sometimes dips down to the double digits. To make up for this transgression, he tries to overpay when he can. Is that good enough? Is Ikael a bad person? Oh…

“Certainly,” Hien says with a short bow. Ikael throws the remainder of his cushions upwards and cheers. One falls ilms from Hien’s head. He looks amused, however, so Ikael is sure it is fine.

“So! You… brought… cushions,” says Hien, in a manner that implies he is trying to be charismatic and leaderlike about it but does not know how.

“Yep!” Ikael chirps, toddling forward to start fluffing them out and arrange them properly.

“Ah…” Hien sounds at a loss for words. Ikael picks up a cushion that has fallen at his feet and sets it neatly next to another. Yellow and blue are complementary colours, right? Ikael does not remember.

“… Why?”

“Oh! I thought you could use some nicer ones,” Ikael replies. “I didn’t want to get nasty Eorzean cushions—don’t worry. I found these in Kugane. Their markets have nice things, you know? If a bit pricey…”

Ikael likes the Hingan cushions very much. He is considering buying a whole cartload of them (when he can afford to do so once more) and replacing all of the ones at the Rising Stones.

“Pricey,” Hien repeats. He bends down to feel the fringes of a cushion between his fingertips. A small frown starts to grow on his face. “Ikael—these are of quite high stock. They must have cost you a fortune!”

He does not sound upset, exactly, but his voice is somewhat rough. Ikael swallows down the irrational spark of anxiety in his throat. Surely Hien will not get angry with him? He is… too kind for that, right?

Ikael nods. “They did,” he says, pressing his fingers to his face. “But the ones you have here… well. They’re a bit bristly, yeah? But if you do not… if you do not want these, you do not have to accept them. I just thought it would make things a lot more… comfortable. And I paid for them out of pocket, so no worries about any ill-spent money that could have gone to more righteous causes. I would have wasted it all on a sweater or something, haha!”

He is blathering on now; a nervous tick of his. He very much hopes Hien is not upset with him. They have only just begun to become friends, and Ikael hates to think that he has ruined that already.

“Be that as it may,” Hien says in a serious tone, “I am in debt to you. You did not have to—”

He breaks off, tilting his head ever so slightly to stare at Ikael with an undecipherable expression. Oh no; this was a terrible, stupid idea. Ikael’s ears dip as he sits on one of the cushions, stroking his tail and preparing to be lectured at. He knew he should have gotten something more practical—food, maybe, or clothing. But _cushions_? What kind of fool is he?

Ikael is about to mumble out a weak apology when Hien smiles suddenly, warm and friendly. A small, weak part of Ikael’s heart lifts in hope. Does Hien like the cushions after all?

“I must thank you very much,” Hien bows deeply, and Ikael lets go of his tail, surprise loosening his grip. “It is not a conventional gift, but it is very characteristic of you, and I will treasure that reminder every time I see them. You are very thoughtful, Ikael. Thank you.”

 _Oh_ , that is— “ _Oh_ ,” says Ikael, pressing his hands to his face once more, this time in embarrassment. He can feel the warmth of his cheeks at his fingertips. “That—I-I-I—you’re welcome. I-I’m glad you like them! I specifically picked ones that I thought would go with the décor, yeah?”

“As… I can see!” Hien says after a short, odd pause. He smiles again, however, so Ikael dismisses it and smiles back.

“Come, help me arrange them,” Hien says, and Ikael happily jumps to his feet, tail wriggling. This was a _good_ waste of money, he thinks. Maybe he can buy blankets next.

~*~


	66. competition

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> i realize i never posted this chapter

“No, the—entire thing. Fit the entire thing in your mouth.”

“Hm?” Thancred lowers the banana to look at him. Ikael sucks his lips in between his teeth, considering the bowl filled with their options. His tail swishes softly against the floor as he thinks, beginning to gather just a little bit of dust.

He finally reaches for one of the sausages they have picked out, handing it to Thancred. Thancred hums, considering it, and slips it past his lips.

“… Huh,” Ikael says after Thancred has successfully fit the entire thing inside his mouth before smoothly pulling it out. “How about… the popsicle? It’s more rigid.”

“And _cold_ ,” says Thancred. “No thank you. I do not wish to _completely_ wreck my throat.”

Ikael blows a rolanberry at him teasingly, a _“pbbbbbth”_ noise that makes Thancred roll his eyes and shove him a little.

“You try the sausage now,” he says. “Come on—‘tis the _easiest_ one.”

Ikael makes a face. “Ew, no! You just put that in your mouth.”

“Dear gods,” Thancred mutters. “Your inhibitions are odd, and also awful.”

“I’m not touching that! How about this— _I’ll_ do the popsicle, since you’re being such a coward.”

“Go ahead.” Thancred spreads his hands. “Do try not to choke.”

Ikael squints at him. “I _never_ choke,” he declares grandly, reaching for the frozen treat. He decides to keep the wrapper on, since he does not want any to break off while he is shoving it down his throat.

He tilts his head up, readies himself… then pauses to look at Thancred.

“No sexualizing me,” he says.

“ _Twelve_ forbid,” says Thancred. Ikael takes that as reassurance.

He has just about begun when a familiar and far-too-young-and-uncorrupted-to-be-watching-this voice interrupts.

“What,” she says, “in the _hells_ are you two doing?”

Ikael takes the popsicle out of his mouth and joins his stare with Thancred's. Alisaie Leveilleur is standing there, arms crossed, looking a mix between horrified and intrigued.

“What? What are you—what are you doing up?” Ikael stutters. “Isn’t it past your bedtime?”

“We were having a comparison of talents, if you must know,” Thancred explains, because he is a horrible person. “There is a rather winningly handsome lad who seems to be the Seventh Heaven’s new regular, and _Ikael_ said that he—”

“Enough!” Alisaie looks like she regretted asking in the first place. “Please do not finish that sentence. _Ever_. You two are _disgusting!”_

She spins to Ikael, who winces and winds his tail defensively around the leg of his stool. “I-I—”

Alisaie’s face is quite red by now, which, judging by Thancred's amused smirk, he finds quite entertaining. She huffs, and says, “I… discover something new about you every day, it seems. Frankly, it should not surprise me that you are less…” She winces. “… conformingly uncrude in some areas, especially around certain company, but I still find myself… well, surprised.”

“I must admit, this did devolve into a crude, phallus-oriented competition that is not really related to our good man Roland anymore,” Thancred states, “But just in case, I have prepared some fruit for us. Hm?”

He smiles at Ikael, who stares back at him, aghast.

“No,” he says. The “phallus-oriented” nature of the competition had been _just_ a degree of separation away from being too much. Because he. Does _not_. Need to think. About _Thancred_. Like that.

Thancred tilts his head. “Come now, Ikael. It is hardly fair to assume—”

“Nope!” Ikael starts to shake his head. “That’s not why. Nope! You can violate your fruits away from me, please. I can do it on my own time. Not with you. Stick to,” He tosses the sausage on table. It plops a few ilms away, and then rolls to Thancred. “… Sausages.”

Thancred quirks an eyebrow. Ikael hopes very very desperately that he does not catch on to Ikael’s train of thought. Thancred says, “Can’t handle it?”

He is smirking. Bastard.

Handsome bastard. Ikael hates him.

“I… am getting extremely uncomfortable with the atmosphere in this room,” Alisaie announces. “I am going to sleep. Good night, you two. Never mention this to me ever again.”

And with a swirl of her coat, she walks away. Ikael waves.

When he looks back to Thancred, he is considering the options in the bowl again. “No fruits,” he agrees. “Although it is tempting, just to frustrate you. However, I do not wish to become a source of _that_ kind of frustration. Again.” He winks, then winces a little.

“Agreed!” Ikael says shrilly. “Let’s stop talking about it! Please! Now try to fit this popsicle in your mouth.”

Thancred frowns at him. “’Twas your turn! Cheater.”

Ikael crosses his arms. “I did it while you were not looking,” he lies. The popsicle… really _is_ cold. Ikael—shh—probably cannot manage it. “Now if you _can’t_ do it… hm…”

Thancred harrumphs, and takes the popsicle with grand, overdramatic suspicion. Ikael grins at him.

“The whole thing,” he clarifies unnecessarily.

~*~


	67. cacozealous

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> of being a bad imitation.

It is… early. Thancred does not think he can bring himself to leave his room today. He barely thinks he can leave his bed.

He will fake illness if he must, he decides. Hopefully, he will not be needed. It is only for a day, after all, and with the way the Scions are going out and about nowadays, it is unlikely that anyone will even notice his absence.

It is about mid-morning when he gets a call on his linkpearl.

 _“You haven’t had breakfast yet,”_ declares a self-righteous voice. _“Are you coming down, or shall I have to go up?”_

Ah, right. Ikael.

“I ate,” Thancred mutters, staring at his ceiling.

 _“You most certainly did not,”_ Ikael returns indignantly. _“I am always the first one up—do not think I do not keep track of these things, Thancred! Now make your choice.”_

Thancred eyes a crack running along a wooden beam and bemoans the fact that he has such a rude and demanding friend. “I will make my own breakfast, Ikael,” he says finally. “Pray do not wait up for me.”

 _“Hmm,”_ Ikael says cryptically, and the connection cuts off.

Thancred really should not be as surprised as he is when, ten minutes later, he hears his door open. The smell of bacon immediately permeates the room, invading seemingly Thancred's entire consciousness, and it is because of the resulting hungry pang of his stomach that he looks up.

Ikael sniffs, making a face as he nudges the door shut with his toe. “It is disgusting in here,” he proclaims, setting his—large, very full—tray down and moving to open the windows. “Gods, Thancred—you can’t live like this! Do I have to move into your room until you can sort yourself out?”

Thancred grunts at him, too distracted by the food to channel much energy into giving an answer. There is indeed bacon, as well as eggs and toast and a small stack of _divine_ -looking pancakes, next to a cup of syrup. Thancred tugs himself upwards, curiosity lending him a dredge of energy as his blankets fall around his waist. Craning his neck, he can see the edge of what looks like—strawberries? Ikael has gotten strawberries? With _cream_? By the Twelve…

“You didn’t eat much last night,” Ikael says, opening the curtains in one dramatic gesture. Thancred blinks dazedly at the sudden flood of gentle light. “So I thought I’d bring you a lot of food! You do not have to finish it if you do not wish to, of course. In fact, I fancy I might steal a strawberry.”

“I, ah…” Thancred has to clear his throat. “… Thank you, Ikael. You did not need to do this simply on account of my… laziness. You are being very kind.”

He remembers at the last moment that he is supposed to be charming, and competent, and self-aggrandizing. He offers Ikael what he hopes is a suitably winsome smile, with just a hint of wryness. Enough to suggest that he could have done all of this himself he if had so chosen, perhaps.

Ikael frowns at him, gesturing for him to sit up before placing the tray on his lap. “I hardly think I deserve thanks for taking care of my very dear and lovely friend,” he says softly, pressing a hand to Thancred's cheek. “I am here for you when you need me, yeah? Now eat up!”

He smiles, giving Thancred a little tap before beginning to make the bed around him. Thancred stares, caught off-guard. For a moment he wrestles with the choice of whether or not to continue his congenial charade, but by the looks of it, Ikael has barely noticed it, let alone fallen for it. In the end Thancred shrugs, and greedily forks a slice of bacon.

The food is _heavenly_. Thancred owns the Culinarian’s Guild a personal letter of gratitude. Perhaps it tastes better because it feels as if Thancred has not eaten in moons, or perhaps Ikael missed a truly glorious and highly successful career as a five-star breakfast chef. Either way, Thancred is very glad for his stroke of kindness.

“Now go bathe so I can make the bed properly,” Ikael says as soon as Thancred finishes, and then Thancred is being ungracefully dragged off his own bed. He yelps and clutches the tray, trying to keep anything from breaking.

“You’re a bloody slave driver,” he grumbles, but trudges towards the bathing room. He knows, at least, that he _does_ smell a little, even if Ikael is too kind to mention it.

“You reek,” Ikael calls after him.

~*~

Completely predictably, a fresh change of clothes is waiting for Thancred at the door, lying on top of which is even a clean, dark red bandana. He chuckles to himself and gets dressed. When he returns to his room once more, Ikael is there, along with about half a dozen extra pillows.

“I thought we’d nap!” he exclaims as soon as Thancred enters. His tail excitedly whips against a pillow. “I haven’t napped in almost a day!”

“Twelve forbid,” Thancred quips, raising an eyebrow. “Really, it is a mir—”

“—acle I get anything done,” Ikael echoes in time with him. Thancred squints.

“I must thank you for this,” he says, deciding to change the subject and tapping at his covered eye. “Black does get a little depressing, even if it _does_ make a statement.”

“You’re welcome! I will be taking it back in the evening,” Ikael says with a grand smile. Thancred pauses halfway to the bed.

“Oh! Ah… of course,” he says, somewhat gracefully. “Thank you very much for letting me—”

“I’m kidding! I’m joking. It’s yours now. Haha!” Ikael laughs, throwing up his arms. Thancred sighs, giving his head a small shake, but cannot help a smile.

Ikael furiously motions him over, so Thancred concedes and lies back down on his bed with only a small eye roll. He waits patiently as Ikael gets far more comfortable than is probably socially acceptable, and then it is only a matter of time before he finds himself hazily drifting off to sleep.

~*~

Thancred awakes to the feeling of something moving through his hair. He cracks open his eye to see bare skin, ilms away. The next thing he registers in his confusion is a low, murmuring noise, and he has to focus for a few seconds before he can identify what it is.

"You're so precious," Ikael is saying very, very quietly, petting his head. "You're so precious. Yes."   
  
Normally Thancred would at least snigger, but the words are for some reason summoning a strange tightness in his throat. So he does not, and instead closes his eyes once more, not wanting to disturb Ikael’s gentle activity.

Thancred does not know whether it is some odd urge or simply natural behaviour which has drawn Ikael to help him, but he does know that he is grateful. Mayhaps he will even try his hand at baking a thank-you cake. When he can.

~*~


	68. halatinous

Limsa Lominsa is… an interesting place. I’jela had taken the time to look around when they had first arrived, and she will admit that, despite the lingering scent of fish and sea salt in the air, the liveliness of the city has a certain… charm to it. Still, she thinks she prefers the desert. There are too many people here for her to feel comfortable—she is not used to crowds. On top of which, it is _loud—_ she feels out of place amongst the bellowing, cheery voices of the fish vendors and the general cacophonous hubbub all around them.

“An’ did you see the _biiiig_ fish? It was… _this_ big! Oh, I am going to tell Kava all about it when we get back! He’s gonna be _so_ impressed. Do you think we can buy a fish to show him? Mamae? Do you think we can buy a fish?”

Kael, on the other hand, is quite excited.

“Watch your hands, kitten,” I’jela says, idly moving his left arm—which is still outstretched—closer to him before it collides with a barrel. “And we can certainly buy a fish, but I am afraid it will go off long before we get back home.”

“Aww.” Kael affects a pout, dropping his arms. “We can’t make it last longer? How about a big one? A _really_ big one?”

I’jela gently takes his hand before he can emote once more, since he looks like he is about to. “A fish’s size, however impressive, does not affect its lifespan,” she tells him. “And I am not versed in any preservation magic, unfortunately. But we may buy something else, if you wish.”

She smiles at him, and he squeaks and jumps a little before beaming back. He begins to look around eagerly for whatever temporary satisfaction he can find, and I’jela patiently waits for him to settle on the thing that piques his interest the most, letting him gently tug her this way and that.

When he stops, of course, it is next to a giant fish. Granted, he is pointing at the frying shop _beside_ it, but I’jela still has to keep herself from making a face at the smell.

“Food?” she questions in response to his eager expression. He nods enthusiastically and squeezes her fingers; a signal that he would like to rush off but is suppressing the urge for her sake. Or perhaps simply because he does not wish to let go of her hand. Either is equally likely.

“Okay,” she grants, and begins to head towards the vendor. Kael swings their hands happily. “But we would have eaten anyways; I will allow something else on account of that.”

“I’m hungry!” Kael pipes up cheerfully, his immediate concern apparently being his only one.

I’jela sighs. “Alright,” she says. “What would you like? Do you want me to order for you?”

Kael is already speaking to the vendor, apparently too excited for her questions to register. The small stub of his tail is wagging rapidly. “Hi mister!” he says. “Wow, I really like your fish! Are those your fish? They’re really big! How did you get them?”

The roegadyn manning the shop laughs. “These’uns next to me? Not mine! Ask Aermwyb o’er there if yer curious, littlun! She don’t bite, I promise.”

Kael ventures a quick glance at the owner of the fish stall, and his ears dip down shyly. Suddenly wrapping his arms around himself, he begins to look around—and I’jela smoothly steps in beside him before he can panic, laying a hand on his head.

“We just might, afterwards,” she offers the vendor with a smile as Kael wraps his arms around her and hides his face. “May we have… ah, the fish and chips look good, I think. Thank you kindly.”

“Mamae,” Kael mumbles into her hip. She pets his head consolingly. They have to wait for the food, at least, and he will not want to go find a seat without her.

The roegadyn starts to make their food, and I’jela murmurs encouragingly to Kael to watch what he is doing. He ends up peeking curiously at what is happening, one ear half-cocked. When the food is done he fists a hand in her skirt and mostly extracts himself, letting her move about freely.

They move, at Kael’s insistence, over to the farthest table from the stall—one that sits alone overlooking a lovely view of the ocean. I’jela sets the food down as Kael scoots the two chairs closer together.

They sit. Kael looks at the food for nearly a minute, then slowly up at I’jela.

“The giant man was scaring me,” he mumbles.

I’jela takes a chip. “Yeah?” she questions, dipping it in the small cup of sauce provided.

Kael’s gaze drops down again. “Yeah,” he mumbles. He reaches forward to take a chip as well, and—to her mild amusement—imitates her actions exactly. He bites when she does, and chews for barely a second before scrunching up his face.

“It’s so salty!” he squeaks.

I’jela chuckles. “Try eating them without the dip,” she suggests. “Or take a fish stick. Here.” She nudges them towards him.

Kael does both, and chews very thoroughly, making sure to close his mouth—good—before swallowing. They eat for a few minutes in silence. Kael’s ears gradually perk back up, and five minutes later, he is energetically swinging his legs in the chair.

Finally, he pauses, and seems to think.

“I… didn’t like when he asked me to talk to the giant lady,” he offers almost hesitantly. I’jela leans forwards encouragingly.

“You did not?” she prompts. Inwardly, she is amused at “giant lady,”—she will have to correct that later, but now is hardly the time.

“No.” Kael shakes his head back and forth four times. “She didn’t have food and she wasn’t… nice ears and… she’s really big and I didn’t like her feeling.”

“Hm.” I’jela attempts to process that. “Well, I am sure she might be a nice person if you give her a chance, kitten. You never know.”

“Yeah?” he says through a mouthful of food. A few fried crumbs spill out and fall on the table.

“Chew first,” I’jela says, and then, “Yeah.”

“Oh! Sorry, Mamae.”

“It’s alright.”

Kael starts to kick his legs once more, and finishes his fish stick. Then he nudges what is left towards her.

“I’m full, Mamae,” he says, followed immediately by, “Can I have ice cream?”

I’jela raises an eyebrow. “Aren’t you full?”

“Yes but I’ve never had ice cream and Kava says he has and I want to have it too because that’s not fair and I saw ice cream earlier and it smelled nice and I’ll even go and ask for it myself please Mamae?”

I’jela eyes how much of the food he has not eaten (most of it), considers how much of a scoop of ice cream he will also most likely not eat (most of it), and shrugs internally. That will be her supper, she supposes.

“Just this once, because we are visiting,” she tells Kael, and he throws his arms up and cheers.

“Thank you Mamae I love you lots,” he says, and she laughs.

“I love you too, kitten,” she says, fishing in her pack for a handkerchief. “Now wipe your mouth, yeah? And we’ll go have a look at that ice cream.”

~*~


	69. tornado

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> haha 69

“Ellie,” Thancred repeats without inflection.

The coeurl kitten fidgets in Ikael’s arms, pushing at him with its paws and looking for all the world like it is trying to escape. If Thancred were any less smart, he would have almost thought it is responding to its “name.”

“Yes! Well, um.” Ikael is struggling mightily to hold the thing steady. He winces when sharp claws dig into his arm. “She seems… attached to me. I thought it’d be okay if I, uh…”

“Brought a wild animal to the Waking Sands?” Thancred loosely gestures to the area around them. “By all means; it seems we are half in the habit of recruiting them already.”

Ikael blushes at that, for whatever reason—he blushes at a lot of things Thancred says, so he does not pay it much mind—and shifts the kitten’s position so that he is more or less cradling it like an infant.

Its back paw kicks the air, dangerous ilms away from Ikael’s throat. “Mrrrehh,” it says.

“ _Aww_ ,” Ikael replies inanely, and coos at it. Thancred watches in near disbelief as it arches its head up, and then rubs against what it had nearly dismembered.

“Anyways, um.” Ikael’s gaze flicks back up to join Thancred's as he rubs his cheek back against the kitten. “I… hope it’s not too much of an issue? I-I-I’ll take care of her and all, I promise. I’ve been doing it so far, anyways. She just needs someone to look after her… She’s so vulnerable on her own, poor thing.”

He pauses to coo at the thing again, and it makes a growling, mewling-like noise back before closing its eyes and wriggling. Ikael waits until it stills, then starts to pet its chest with a smile. He glances back up at Thancred once more.

“If it _is_ an issue, I will leave and see to her elsewhere,” he says. “This is a… this is a lovely place and all, Thancred, but I cannot simply abandon her.”

Thancred raises both his hands and his eyebrows. “Alright, alright,” he says. “No need to throw down ultimatums. I suppose if Minfilia allows it, you may house a wildcat in our headquarters. It is on you to housetrain it, however.”

“Uh.” Ikael winces. “She’s not—she’s not, uh…”

“I am sure we have nothing to fear in your capable hands, my good fellow,” Thancred says, clapping him on the shoulder as he begins to walk past. He pauses to eye the coeurl, who is staring at him with a slow, unblinking gaze that is _almost_ endearing. “Welcome to the Scions, Ellie.”

“Oh gods,” Ikael mumbles faintly, no doubt beginning to have regrets. “Oh-- _Tataru_ …”

“Crystal guide you,” Thancred farewells cheerfully, and leaves Ikael to dwell on the scope of his decisions.

~*~


	70. boys

“Mamae,” Kael starts pointedly, “What do you think about… girls?”

I’jela lolls her head to the side in one slow, tired gesture, squinting as sunlight hits her eyes. Kael’s face is less than two ilms away from hers.

“Girls?” I’jela frowns a little. “They are there. I am one.”

“You are not a girl; you are Mamae,” Kael says.

That surprises a laugh out of her. Kael grins back toothily, most likely pleased that he has caused it. I’jela stretches, then groans as she sits up. Kael does the same, although he only stretches.

“Girls are not for everyone,” she says. “I myself think they are quite lovely. I also think some boys can be quite lovely.”

Kael looks up from where he has begun to pick at the grass, and scrunches up his face. “Which ones?” he asks with an air of mild disgust.

I’jela chuckles lightly. “Not the nuhn,” she says. She presses her forefinger against the ball of his nose. “Some less boring men you know nothing about. Ranan, once.”

“Ranan once what?” Kael asks.

I’jela blinks at him calmly. “We once… how do you put it? Liked each other.”

Kael looks mildly horrified at this, so she laughs once more, and flicks his nose. “Nothing to concern yourself about, kitten,” she says.

Kael blows a rolanberry at her, then snatches up a small fistful of grass and throws it in her general direction.

“Whee,” he says.

“Now, now.” I’jela brushes herself off. “No need to be immature. So why are you asking about girls?”

“ _Wellll_ ,” Kael drawls, hugging his knees, “Kava was asking me if I liked girls.”

“And?” I’jela picks out some of the blades of grass that had fallen in her hair.

Kael gives a big shrug. “I think… girls are pretty,” he says slowly.

“They are,” I’jela agrees.

Kael’s soft face creases into a frown. “But… that is all,” he says. “And… you are pretty too, Mamae!” He beams at her.

I’jela smiles quietly and begins to gently run her fingers through Kael’s hair, untangling some of the knots he has caused. “So are you, sweetheart,” she says.

Kael says nothing for a moment. “I… don’t like that Kava is asking stupid questions,” he says eventually.

“Kael.” I’jela frowns a little. She picks a small twig out of his hair. “Do not say that. It is not nice. Kava might… have been asking you something else, but simply did not know how to phrase it subtly.”

“Phrase it what?” Kael asks.

I’jela tilts her head. “How to… ask you something without making it obvious he was asking it,” she clarifies.

“That is—” Kael stops himself. “Sorry, Mamae. That’s mean. But… why does he not simply… _ask_ me?”

I’jela pauses to consider. She remembers, quite clearly, the day a hyuran merchant caravan had crossed paths with the tribe, and how Kael had very clearly ogled at one of the merchant’s teenage sons. Not someone I’jela would have approved of, of course, had it been serious—age difference aside. But it had been but a passing fancy, and Kael’s bright red face had been… at least a little bit amusing.

“Some people cannot see what is most obvious when it has been in front of them their whole lives,” she says. “Or they simply do not like the answer they know is true, so they search for another one that they will never find.”

Kael seems to be trying to take this in. “So…” he says slowly, “Kava _knows_ I don’t like girls, but he wants me to.”

That makes I’jela drop her hands. “Ah…” she says. “Not… exactly what I meant. Oh; it matters not. Give it some thought and time, Kael, and the matter will eventually resolve.”

Kael cranes his neck around to give her a pleading look, and does not stop until she dutifully places her hand on his head again and starts carding through his hair.

“Thank you Mamae you are very wise and I love you,” Kael says happily.

I’jela sighs inwardly. “I love you too, kitten,” she says, somewhat defeatedly. Ah well. Hopefully this issue will stay small, and _will_ resolve itself in due time. At the very least, she is sure it will not blow up out of proportion and be Kael’s first big mistake in another, oh, five years or so.

Now _that_ would be ridiculous.

~*~


	71. all saints' wake

“What in the hells is wrong with your face?” is the first thing Thancred says to him after he has spent the entire day painstakingly toiling away in his room.

“I’m a vampire,” Ikael says, convincingly.

Thancred gives him an incredulous look. His eyes dart from Ikael’s face down his body and back up, taking in his outfit. Ikael tries to appear charming yet menacing—sexy in a dangerous way.

“You look like you stuck your face in a sack of flour and sneezed,” says Thancred.

Ikael opens his mouth, offended. The movement draws Thancred's gaze again, and his eyebrows shoot up.

“Are those false teeth?” He steps forward, leaning to examine Ikael’s mouth more closely. Ikael obligingly keeps it open, even when he starts drooling a little.

This is not _fair._ Why couldn’t Thancred have looked him over this attentively a year ago, when it would have _meant_ something to Ikael? Now those boyish good looks are ilms away from his face, and instead of thinking about them getting closer, Ikael is wondering how long his powder will last, and if it is saliva-proof.

“I find it somewhat amazing that you have to buy some cheap children’s accessory to badly attach to your mouth just because you were born on the sunnier side of things,” Thancred says, idly wiping at the side of Ikael’s mouth with his sleeve. Ikael winces when it comes away with a somewhat disgusting powdery imprint.

“Well, what are _you_ doing, hm?” Ikael settles his hands on his black leather-clad hips. He hopes his lisp is not _too_ apparent. “You do not look any different. No more terrifying or monshtrous than that shirt usually ish.”

That grants him a glimpse of a smile, even as something flickers behind Thancred's warm brown eyes. “I… do not find myself drawn to the paranatural and the macabre, as such,” he says. “Not… not anymore.”

A dark, sharply clear image of Thancred clad in black robes and a wicked smile flashes in Ikael’s mind. He finds himself nodding before he even replies. “Of course,” he says softly. “Understandable. Well…”

He steps back to grandly indicate the area that leads to the kitchen, and only wobbles _slightly_ in his heels.

“I will be icing cookies to dishtribute,” he says. “Around the Waking Shands first, and then to Ul’dah. Do you want to come with?”

Thancred tilts his head, as if considering. Ikael takes the opportunity to readjust his teeth.

Thancred tips his chin up. “I will, I think,” he says. “Well, on one condition.”

“Yesh?”

Thancred's lips press together briefly in what might be a suppressed smile. “Wash your face and see Tataru about your makeup,” he says.

Ikael makes an offended noise, opening his mouth again. The teeth fall out.

“Oh—!” Ikael squats down as best he can—with these _damned_ heels—to pick them up. Thancred is already laughing at him, because he is an arse. “Oh, alright. Fine. At least dress up as a pirate or something while I get that done, yeah?

Thancred winks at him after helping him up. “A sexy pirate,” he says. “Yes, I think I can do that.”

He starts to walk away. “So that we match?” Ikael calls after him.

Thancred does not answer that.

~*~


	72. stolen

He puts on his most _winning_ smile. He’s learned what that means—winning. It means he can win something, if he brightens his eyes and his face enough.

The vendor of the sweet cart Thancred has had his eye on for a week does not seem to be taken by the show of Thancred's mostly pearly whites. She casts a suspicious eye down at him—a long way down, considering she is a roegadyn and he is barely four fulms high—and plants her feet.

“Scram.” One word, a cocked eyebrow, and a disdainful glance at Thancred's hands.

He smiles wider, and uses those hands to press his hair back. He’s cleaned his face for this, too, to look right proper; spit in his hands and rubbed ’em, and he’s all pink and peachy.

“Really, ’m!” He pushes himself up on his toes. “Issa lovely day, so’s I just had’ thought teh go ‘round complimentin’ beaut ladies likes yerself!” He puffs up his chest. “I’ll even trill for ye! No payment in.”

He’s got a good voice, Daisy’s said. Good ‘nough to give him money, Thancred, if he’s in wants of honest work. But he ain’t, right now—he just wants that sweet.

“Oh?” The woman crosses her arms. “Not interested, lad. Now get yer sticky pickers out’ve me sight ‘fore I call the watchers on ye!”

Thancred makes a show of sighing, dropping his smile and drooping his shoulders. “Oite, ‘m. I’ll tell ol’ Blansbwrg that ye ain’t loverly ‘nough fer ‘im. Pity, ‘m.”

“Ye’ll tell who wot?” She squints at him until her eyebrows practically meet her cheeks. Thancred points. She turns to look, and quick as a minnow, Thancred snatches the biggest of the sweets and ducks away.

He runs to the rhythm of her angry shouts and his thudding heartbeat, but he is grinning from the rush, and victory tastes _so_ sweet.

~*~

“This is a _serious_ matter, Thancred. I cannot find that blasted tome, and I have looked for it everywhere!”

Y'shtola’s eyes shine bright in her frustration, brilliant teal almost glowing from the whir of unsettled aether and the stirrings of a verbal bite. Thancred does not tell her it makes her look even lovelier, although it is a close thing— _he_ does not wish to be bitten.

“I am merely suggesting that you take a break from the issue, for today at least,” he says placatingly, holding up his hand. “Take rest. Perhaps you shall be lucky and it will be awaiting you on your bedside in the morn.”

Her eyes narrow at him. “Yes,” she says in a flatly suspicious tone. “Perhaps.”

He smiles at her. In the end, she can do nothing to prove he has taken anything, so she searches for another two bells and then gives up in a huff and sleeps.

Thancred flips through the heavy pages of the tome, memorizing it as best and as quickly as he can. More Y'shtola’s area of expertise than his, he will admit, but he is… interested. Perhaps…

When Y'shtola awakes, she finds the thick volume of Thancred's dirtiest poetry book patiently resting on her nightstand. Thancred, in the meantime, has traveled to Gridania, and so is not in hearing range of her enraged shout.

~*~

Thancred slips into the tent when he has the chance—before departing for Garlemald, but after all the necessary preparations have been made, and he will not be noticed.

He clears his throat pointedly. Lyse jumps, spinning around.

“Oh, Thancred!” She presses a hand to her chest. “Rhalgr, you startled me. What are you doing here?”

His face breaks, then, into an amicable smile, and he stretches out his arm.

“A gift,” he says as she steps forward curiously. “Since yours broke.”

“Oh… what?” He uncurls his fingers, and Lyse looks in surprise at the fine red hair ribbon that she takes from him. “This is… wow! How…”

Thancred winks, bows, and starts to back out of the tent.

“Wait.” Lyse sounds as if she is starting to piece something together. “Where did you get this? It looks like the ones I’ve seen in… Hey! Thancred!”

“’Tis a token of my friendship, Lyse!” he calls over his shoulder, merrily trotting off. She will wear it—he is certain. Even if she has qualms about that sort of thing…

Well. It _is_ pretty.

~*~

Someone has taken Minfilia’s perfume bottle.

Thancred has not simply misplaced it. He _knows_ where he keeps things, godsdammit, and he knows it is missing. He has searched everywhere—every secret spot of his in the building, and those of everyone else’s as well. He has turned dressers inside-out and upturned stools and searched every last _ilm_ of every last cabinet and—

It is nowhere to be found.

Finally, he slumps on his bed, tired and worn and exhausted. He can feel his eyes heat, and he presses his thumb and forefinger into them, takes a shuddering breath, lets it out as more than one. A simple task. A _simple_ thing, so precious, and he cannot keep track of it, he cannot… cannot…

He drags himself out of his room, finally, and as he opens the door nearly shatters a small glass vial laying on the ground. He stares at it for a moment, disbelieving. Then he picks it up with tender fingers, shaking only as much as a trained rogue who has lost all sight of himself can.

Never again, he vows. He will _not_ lose it again.

~*~


	73. acts of kindness

_Go find someone_ , Y'shtola had said, a flicker of some hidden amusement in her eyes. And Thancred… has found someone! A… good… someone… Perched on a block of stone, eyes closed, hands pressed together, and looking… quite silly, in Thancred's opinion.

“Ikael!”

Ikael looks up, face brightening when he spots him and ears wiggling in that ridiculous little way that miqo’te do. Thancred… _loves_ that wiggle. It is so… cute.

“Heheh,” he mumbles, stumbling forwards and stretching out his arms. Ikael tilts his head. His ears move again, swivelling towards Thancred. It looks… even sillier! How silly.

Thancred croons, and, when he is within arms’ reach, moves to fondle those silly little ears with his hands. How _silly_. How soft…

“Uh,” says Ikael.

He allows the fondling for a minute, and then he gently pushes Thancred back. Thancred pouts. Not fair.

“What,” Ikael says, studying Thancred carefully, “in the _hells_ … is wrong with you?”

“No _thing_ ,” Thancred sing-songs, very convincingly. Ikael raises his eyebrows. Both, probably, although Thancred can only see one. How rude… Ikael should put his hair up.

He makes to do just that, but Ikael smoothly catches his hands and holds them. Thancred tugs, gleeful as only a charmed man can be, but somehow wanting them back nevertheless.

“Tell me who did this to you, and I will release you,” Ikael bargains. Ha! Thancred is the one who is good at bargaining, not the silly little cat.

“Release me, and I will tell you that it was Y'shtola,” he says confidently.

Ikael’s eyebrow frowns. “Is that so?” He slips off his block, releasing Thancred like he promised, because he is a naïve and nice person. “Rather inconsiderate of her, if you ask me. Especially… considering.”

“Lost a bet,” Thancred explains, moving to pet those ears again. This time, Ikael does not bat him away like a silly person.

“Then she can find another consequence,” Ikael says, holding on to Thancred's arm. “Come on. Let’s go have a chat with her.”

~*~

“Alisaie?” Ikael pauses, apparently having seen her through the doorway. “Is everything alright?”

“My… braid…” Alisaie grunts, jerking it once more. It snags, making her wince, and refuses to come free.

“Oh, no no _no_ ,” Ikael tuts, moving into the room and setting his book—a cooking book, it looks like—down on the nearby coffee table. “Let me help you, darling.”

She sighs, relenting and throwing her arms down. “Should just cut the damned thing off,” she grumbles, entwining her fingers together.

“Oh no—don’t say that!” Ikael makes an indication for her to turn around, and Alisaie obeys. He may as well try; at least he will be able to see what he is doing.

“Here we are…” She feels gentle fingers thread through her hair, a few very small tugs, and then her ribbon is being placed aside. “Why don’t you sit down? I’ll re-braid it for you, yeah?”

“You can braid?” she questions in surprise, taking a seat on the couch. Ikael makes an affirmative noise.

“Nobody worth their salt should not be able to. I braided my mother’s hair, sometimes, and mine own was longer before I met you all.”

Alisaie tries to imagine that, while Ikael slowly and methodically works through her hair, and has to smile.

“Really?”

“Yeah! Well, it wasn’t too long—down to my shoulders, about, but…” He starts chatting amiably, and Alisaie relaxes.

~*~

“Ohh, is that a little thornie in your little pawie?” Ikael’s voice goes soft as he gets down further, shimmying to his stomach. “Poor baby…”

The wolf pup whines, flattening its ears in fear, and Ikael coos at it, making soft clicking noises with his tongue. He is not that familiar with _canines_ , but they cannot be that different from cats, right? Probably not.

“I’ll take that out and give you some food, hm?” he says, slowly reaching in his pack for the fish he had caught earlier. He drags it out on the ground, maintaining eye contact. The pup sniffs, its ears perking up.

“That’s it… what a good little doggy…” Ikael croons, letting it investigate the fish. “See? I’m not going to hurt you! Good doggy…”

It licks the fish a few times, and then, when the movement puts pressure on its paw, stops. Ikael makes kissing noises at it as he reaches forwards to slowly pick it up.

He manages to extricate the thorn with little difficulty, thankfully, as the pup stays mostly still in his arms. He coos and pets it, telling it that it did very well, very well indeed, and before he knows it, it has fallen asleep.

“Huh,” he muses to himself, picking up his fish. He will wait here for its mother, and if she does not show, perhaps take it to his campsite and give it some food. The poor little thing is probably starving.

~*~

“I am serious! I did not expect your combat abilities to reach the level they are so soon,” Ikael tells Alphinaud, and the boy’s face lightens further.

“Do not think overmuch of it, honestly,” he says, waving away the compliment as though it does not clearly affect him. “I am just paying mind to my studies.”

“Yes, I suppose so,” Ikael muses. “And besides, it is not as if you are at all viable in hand-to-hand combat.”

Alphinaud’s face freezes, then begins to fall. “… Ah,” he says.

“Do not worry! I am here.” Ikael smiles at him, reaching forwards to ruffle his hair. Alphinaud blinks hard, not reacting as he usually does to the gesture. “Good thing, too! Don’t ever get into a street brawl without your book, Alphy! There isn’t the slightest chance you’d win it.”

“Not… even the slightest?” Alphinaud says hesitantly. “I think I would be able to hold my ground for at least some time…”

“Nope! Not at all.” Ikael taps him on the head with one finger. “Your balance is wretched, and you stand like a caster.  That is alright; do not worry! I am shite at magic.”

He walks away, distracted by someone calling his name, and Alphinaud is left to stare at the ground.

“Somehow… that does not make me feel better,” he mutters. Then he shakes his head. There are other, more important things to dwell on at the moment.

~*~


	74. invasive questions

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> (takes place between _scraping the bowl_ and _glued fragments_ )

The youngest son of House Fortemps is a walking, yapping, bleeding headache. Thancred stands by his opinion, stands by his decision to punch him back, and stands by the itch in his fist to do so once more should the opportunity… present itself. He is very purposefully sitting on his hands right now, mostly to mock Emmanellain, and is occasionally reaching out to snatch a biscuit just to see him jump.

It is good fun.

The young impertinence has been pestering Ikael, asking all sorts of ridiculous and invasive questions. Among them include, “Why do your ears look like that?”, and “Do your eyes glow in the dark?” and, Thancred's favourite: “If I were to cut your tail off, would it grow back?”

Really, it is a miracle he is not _used_ to being punched in the face.

Ikael, for his part, does not seem to be overly disturbed, and he patiently answers nearly all of Emmanellain’s questions. Thancred, in his shoes, would have _patiently_ told him to shove off, and so he can admire his restraint.

Emmanellain seems fixed on the matter of Ikael’s appearance, now. Something in Thancred, at this thought, shifts uneasily, even as Emmanellain breaks to take a sip of his wine and leans back in his seat. Thancred does not quite like the calculating set to his eyes, how they are alert and always on the lookout for juicy tidbits. He can grudgingly admire that skill when it is applied to Ishgard’s noble rabble, he will admit, but he does not quite appreciate that it is now directed at a friend.

Thancred takes another biscuit, simply to unsettle Emmanellain. It works, partly; his gaze falters and darts to Thancred's hands, but then resettles on Ikael, who is nibbling at his own biscuit, oblivious to everything else.

Emmanellain takes a long draft of his drink, then sets it back on the table with an audible sigh, smacking his lips. Thancred's eyes narrow at him slightly.

“I say, old boy!” Emmanellain begins, sounding as if a brilliant idea had just occurred to him, “I have a grand question for you! Splurge on the answer, if you like. I’d wager it’d fetch us a fancy tale!”

Ikael blinks, cocking an ear. “Yes?” he prompts. Thancred tenses in preparation.

“You never told me how you got that scar!” Emmanellain leans forward, tracing a finger down his cheek in a pointless imitation of what he is asking about. “I imagine it is from a grand adventure! Are you ashamed of it? Hm? Is that why you do your hair that way?”

Ikael looks… surprised. Yes—surprised, Thancred notes as he studies him closely, but not upset. Or… too bothered, honestly.

“Ah—no, this is just the way my hair goes.” Ikael gives a small, almost apologetic smile, as if he is causing offense by not being psychologically damaged from his own face. “And, uh… I got it from a plate! Actually.”

Emmanellain does not seem to expect this. Neither does Thancred, to be fair, but he is not the one who blinks rapidly and gawks like a dead fish.

“A… plate?” Emmanellain repeats.

Ikael nods. “Yeah! Someone threw a plate at my face, once. ’Twas an accident.”

Thancred winces at that. “You are lucky it did not take out your eye,” he says, contributing to the conversation before he can help himself.

Ikael chuckles a little. “I am,” he says. “Although perhaps then we would match in fashion choices, yeah?” He gives Thancred a small, teasing nudge with his elbow.

Thancred quirks an amused eyebrow back, resettling himself in his seat. The fleeting feeling of apprehension has passed now, and the invasive question has been asked. All is well.

“Will you purr if I pet you?” Emmanellain asks eagerly.

Ikael’s ears flatten back so quickly it looks as if they simply vanish. “What?” he says sharply.

Emmanellain starts to reach out. Ikael slowly pushes himself back in his seat, face mostly neutral. His tail, however, lashes to the side, accidentally hitting Thancred in the leg.

Emmanellain gets up. Thancred stiffens, watching as he moves closer to Ikael, who says nothing more. His tail puffs up like a moogle in a thunderstorm and he keeps moving his head incrementally backwards, but he is not speaking.

“Emmanellain,” Thancred interrupts, deciding to intervene, “I think you have exhausted our dear Warrior’s reservoir of patience. And besides, it is generally considered rude to poke and prod at someone without their express permission.”

He remembers quite clearly that night when Ikael wept to himself in the dark, for it was not too long ago. And he does not like the taste the memory leaves in his mouth, nor the niggling feeling of dishonour in his stomach.

Emmanellain looks at him, surprised, then seems to notice Ikael’s body language. He slowly backs away, lowering his hand.

“I, uh, well.” He scratches the back of his head. “I have… duties to attend to, so never mind! Yes! Well, be seeing you, old boy.”

And with that he scampers off. Thancred grunts, staring at his retreating back.

“Wouldn’t have wounded his ego overmuch to apologize,” he grumbles, not impressed with the hasty retreat. “But ‘tis easier for him to run away, I suppose.”

He glances at Ikael. “I hope he wasn’t too much of a nuisance.”

Ikael does not answer him. Nor does he move. Thancred waits for a minute, and when he remains eerily still, starts to frown.

“Are you quite alright?” he asks.

Ikael’s eyes flicker to him, then to the ground.

“Yeah,” he mumbles.

Thancred is not convinced. Still. He hesitates for a split second, and then decided that it is not his place, and makes to stand.

Ikael says, in a very quiet voice, “Could you stay for a moment? Please.”

Thancred sits back down. “Of course,” he acquiesces. Comfort he may not be able to do, but he can certainly keep company.

“Thank you.” Ikael closes his eyes. Well, at least he is speaking now. Thancred folds his hands together, starting to hum under his breath. This is almost nice, he thinks. Ikael is good company, and he does not complain about much, other than perhaps how much food someone is getting.

“I-I… apologize,” Ikael mumbles after a minute. He is still staring at the ground. “I-I… am sure you do not wish to… to babysit me.”

“It is hardly babysitting,” Thancred states, raising his arms behind his head and beginning to relax. “You are not—though he might protest otherwise—Lord Emmanellain, for example.”

This earns him a—giggle. An odd sound, in its unlikelihood, and Ikael seems to think so too, because then he chokes on air and starts to wheeze; a gasping, parched noise that makes him bend over on himself and dig his fingers into the flesh of his armchair. Thancred is up in a start. He nearly reaches for Ikael before realizing that that may just make it worse.

“Ikael? What is—Shall I fetch a chirurgeon?”

Ikael waves him off, shaking his head. He visibly forces himself to relax, beginning to take deep, wispy breathes, letting his hands clench in the air instead of in the furniture.

Thancred pours out a glass of wine, since he can find no water on the table, and waits. He does not _like_ waiting, in general, but he cannot think of anything he can do here, and so he sits. And… waits.

Eventually, Ikael quietens. He shoots Thancred a wary glance, and Thancred holds out the glass of wine.

“Drink something,” he says as Ikael stares in moderate confusion.

“I… uh…” Ikael rasps. He clears his throat. Thancred raises an eyebrow. Ikael takes the glass.

“Thank you,” he mumbles. He takes a sip. His face twitches, and he pulls back an ilm before biting his lip and taking another one. 

Thancred tilts his head. “What was that?” he murmurs, curiosity getting the better of his manners for a moment.

“U-um.” Ikael looks down. “I-I… it happens. Sometimes. Usually not like this, though. Shouldn’t have laughed.”

“Because Emmanellain was being nosy?” Thancred takes a biscuit. “Why did you not simply tell him to sod off, if that was the case?”

“I-it wasn’t… well. He was going to… I didn’t want him to… do. What he was going to do.”

That is reasonable enough, Thancred considers as he eats his biscuit. Although it does not answer the question of why Ikael did not tell him to sod off, but Thancred supposes that doing so is simply not Ikael’s way. He considers him, taking in the way he is hunched in on himself, how his hands are trembling around the wineglass, his eyes locked on something Thancred cannot see.

“Is there anything I can do to ease your mind?” Thancred offers, taking another biscuit. It is the least he can do, he supposes. Especially as he suspects no one has asked that question to Ikael in a long time.

Ikael's gaze darts up. “Um—well… I…”

The corner of his mouth shifts, and he looks back down. “… No, but thank you,” he mumbles. He pulls his ankles in closer.

He is lying, Thancred is nearly certain. He shrugs, giving the faint feeling of… something odd in his mind a mental frown. He almost writes it off as disappointment, but that is not quite right. Frustration? Too strong. Failure? At what?

He does not know. So he pushes it to the back of his mind, and lets it sit there, for now. Lets it tap against his chest, quietly enough that he would only be able to hear it alongside his own heartbeat. Perhaps one day, he will know what to do. Will feel more natural doing so, will _want_ to do so. But it is the wrong time, now, to chip at icebergs.

He gives a soft sigh, settling back in his chair. He will wait here with Ikael, since he has finished his tasks for the day. There is no harm in it.

_One day._

~*~


	75. a daylong gift

Ikael is wearing a very nice sash. It is indigo, he thinks. _Teal_ , Lyse had said, but he secretly disagrees, since he is fairly certain the colour between green and blue is indigo.

It is a very _nice_ indigo sash. It is a bit big for him, since it is roegadyn-sized and he is miqo’te, but he has wrapped it around himself a few times to cover up nicely, and there is a very fun bit that dangles in the front and flutters whenever he swats at it.

He has to look nice, because it is a very special day. Thancred's nameday, in fact! Or… sometime around it, at least. Thancred has always been evasive about it, loveable arse that he is. Ikael does not wish to wait around—they leave for Doma in a few days, and he does not want to be stuck there and leave Thancred cake-less past the date itself.

It is not that difficult to find the man himself, thankfully, since Ikael can be very nosy when he wants to, and Thancred is not concealing his whereabouts. Ikael trots around Rhalgr’s Reach when he is directed there, keeping an eye out for a handsome bard in an overdramatic outfit.

He finds him leaning against the side of the tavern, one leg cocked backwards, picking at what seems to be some sort of lute-like stringed instrument. He glances up when Ikael appears, and strums a chord.

“I am simply tuning her,” he says, straightening up. “Her previous owner said she’s lost all her magic, but what does he know about magickless things, hm? I think we shall make quite a pair.”

He picks at a string, and the instrument twangs out an awkward note. Thancred hums in consideration, going to adjust it once more.

“‘Her?’” Ikael cocks his head. “So you _are_ one of those people. Well, how about you paint her a nice bright blue? I think she’d look very pretty!”

He smiles, wiggling his ears. Thancred gives him a look that sits between amused and pained.

“I… think I shall leave the bright blues to you, my friend,” he says, nodding at what Ikael can only assume is his lovely sash. “So what brings you to my humble square fulm?”

Blue? “This is indigo,” Ikael tells him proudly. Thancred only looks at him silently for a few seconds, so he mentally shelves the discussion and continues.

“This is for you!” he says, thrusting out his box. Thancred tilts his head a little and lowers his instrument; he is intrigued. How adorable!

Ikael wiggles his box—double chocolate cake, miniaturized for one person, fresh from the oven—rocking on his feet in anticipation. Thancred raises an eyebrow, and slowly takes it.

He opens it, and his expression shifts into one of surprise. “Oh!”

Ikael is beaming. “It’s for _yo-u_ ,” he sing-songs. “Happy nameday! Whenever it is. _Haaaappy naame—_ oh! Please tell me if you are allergic to chocolate.”

“I am not.” Thancred looks slightly bemused. “When did y—”

“Good! I’m so glad. So, um. I… planned a little outing. For, um… you. And me! But mostly you. … And me.”

Thancred's mouth quirks in amusement. “An _outing_?” He crosses his arms slowly while Ikael makes a face at his implication. “Well, I am flattered, Ikael, but sadly not interested.”

“For your _nameday_ , you decrepit old arse,” Ikael says, crossing his arms as well, and then uncrossing them and taking the cake before Thancred can drop it. “Eat your cake, and then we are going to Limsa Lominsa.”

“Limsa?” Thancred shoots him a wary glance. “I do hope you have nothing too extreme planned.”

… Ah. Ikael presses his lips together. “Mhm!” he agrees.

~*~

“This is… the exact opposite… of nothing too extreme,” gasps Thancred as they press themselves against the side of the stowed ship, panting. “This is _very_ extreme. I… daresay… this is as extreme as it gets.”

“You love it,” Ikael wheezes back. He closes his eyes, letting his head thump back against the dull wood. A second later, he hears a gunshot, startling close, and then another, even closer, and then a third at the same time that the area above his head explodes in in fragments and blown-out shards.

Thancred has already danced out of the way, and is now urgently gesturing for him to follow. Ikael ducks another gunshot, grinning, and sprints off after him.

~*~

Three bells later they are sitting in the Bismarck, gazing peacefully out over the ocean, the light of the centre lantern bathing their table in a soothing yellow glow. Well, _Thancred_ is sitting, half at the table and half to the room, trying to tell a story, and Ikael is scurrying about with their orders, making the food.

“And _then_ she said that it wasn’t her, it was her sister!” Thancred shakes his head, clicking his tongue. “Imagine! I’d been deceived all along. Well, I am glad to say that that was some time ago, and I am much more observant nowadays.”

“Of course you would have a ‘turns out they were twins,’ story,” Ikael says, gently agitating his frying pan in a steady rolling motion. It needs to be off heat, so he can stand next to Thancred for a minute or two.

Thancred tilts his head. “You do not have to cook for us, you do realize?” he says. “You no longer work here.”

“Yer mate’s right!” a deep voice hollers from the kitchens. Ikael rolls his eyes, smiling.

“Guild can always use an extra hand,” he says. “And besides; I had the evening cleared out of all the annoying customers. Least I can do to pay that profit loss back is be the one cooking.”

“Only until our food is ready,” Thancred states gravely, pointing at him. “And do not use that as an excuse to take extra time with it. _You_ are the one who is dragging me around on this ridiculous outing, and so _you_ are the one I want to eat with. Not the gulls.”

“Bloody seagulls,” a nearby waiter mutters. Ikael gives him a nod of kinship.

“Ikael.” Thancred jabs him lightly. “I am serious. I will wait for as long as you need me to, but I _do_ wish to eat alongside you.”

“Ohh,” Ikael says, touched. He vigorously shakes his pan. “Alright then. I will get back to our food after I finish this. Are you sure you do not want the shrimp risotto? It is very good! And I _promise_ I will not suddenly fall ill from merely being in proximity.”

Thancred shakes his head, the stubborn arse. Ikael pats him on the cheek fondly and heads back into the kitchen.

~*~

“No, no—I’ve got it,” Ikael says, deftly moving Thancred's plate out of his reach. “Let me do my job! All you have to do is eat.”

His words are gently chiding, but he is smiling. He sets the dishes down with a flourish before sitting across from Thancred.

“Pipera is good braised with a honey melt,” he points out—literally, with his fork—before Thancred can take a bite. “That’s that bit there, and if you like it, there’s more in this. If you don’t like it, I’ll eat it; don’t worry.”

“Your lovely blanket is falling into your food,” Thancred replies, leaning forwards. “Here.”

“It’s not a blanket; it’s a sash,” Ikael insists as Thancred gently readjusts it, tucking it in over his shoulder. “And if you want dessert, I was thinking that instead of having it here, we can go and get ice cream!” He smiles happily. “I love Limsan ice cream! ‘Tis my second favourite food.”

“Ice cream,” Thancred repeats to himself, apparently thinking something over. Finally, he sighs. “Alright,” he agrees, picking up his utensils. He points his knife at Ikael. “But only if you eat without fretting. Deal?”

“Hm…” Ikael waits until Thancred takes a bite, pauses in disbelief, looks at Ikael, rolls his eyes, and then makes an overdramatic show of liking the food. He smiles. “Deal.”

~*~

Ikael is… _so_ full. He feels like a happy, sleepy, indigo balloon. Thancred has already gone to sleep, after claiming that Ikael is a demon from the depths of the seventh hell and that he should have never let himself be talked into taking the “nameday scoop” of ice cream. _It is not even technically my nameday, Ikael_ , he had said. _You are simply odd. And contagious._

Ikael surprises himself with a jaw-cracking yawn. Time to head to bed himself, then, he thinks as he slogs back upstairs. The rest of the Bismarck’s dishes can wait until tomorrow. He changes into his sleep clothes (he had brought the nice tunic with the very long sleeves) and then trudges over to Thancred's room.

He cracks open the door, peering inside. The room is dark, lit only by the silver blush of moonlight, and Thancred is, evidently, asleep, his hands tucked underneath his pillow.

Still, Ikael whispers, “Don’t worry! It’s just me, Kael,” before slipping inside and closing the door.

There is plenty of room in the bed for two, Ikael notes contentedly as he slowly slides under the covers. Ooh… it is nice and toasty in here… and it does not smell fishy, which is a good bonus. Ikael carefully presses himself to Thancred's back, curling his hands between his shoulder blades—softly touching against the cloth of his shirt—and beginning to hesitantly relax. He does not wish to get stabbed.

He presses his nose into the pillow, breathing in deeply, and is immediately comforted by the familiar scent alongside the clean bedsheets. A dear friend can always be counted on, Ikael muses as his eyes start to close, to smell the same.

Ikael’s nose is still cold. He hesitates, then presses it oh-so-slowly to the back of Thancred's neck. Hopefully, he will not notice.

“What’n the frozen bloody hells izzat?” Thancred mumbles groggily. He begins to stir. Ikael shushes him hurriedly, uncurling a hand.

“Shh,” he soothes, petting his ear.

Either that works or Thancred is mollified by his presence, because he stops moving after a few seconds, and Ikael does not get stabbed. Ikael coos at him softly, slowing down until his petting comes to a gentle cease.

“Happy nameday, my wonderful, beautiful, perfect friend,” he whispers, pressing a soft kiss to Thancred's shoulder. His eyelashes flutter, catching on the fabric of the pillowcase. “And goodnight.”

~*~


	76. advice

“Than _cred!_ I can walk,” Ikael chides gently, pushing at him weakly with one bandaged hand. “’s alright.”

It has been but a short walk from his bedside to here, and he already looks tired. But Thancred wants to get him away from the stale air of his bedroom, and there is nothing like a mountainside walk to perk oneself up.

“Walk? ‘Stumble,’ I think you mean, or perhaps ‘pathetically limp,’” Thancred says, letting go of Ikael’s arm for a moment and then retrieving it once more when he takes more of a stagger than a step.

“Is this what you are like when you worry about someone? You are like a grumpy parasite,” Ikael murmurs affectionately. “‘I try and fail to conceal my feelings beneath a veneer of sarcasm and grouchiness,’” he imitates, pitching his voice to what Thancred assumes to be a closer approximation of his own and affecting a _truly_ offensive manner. “‘Ikael, fix yourself at once, else I shall pout at you for the duration of your recovery. Hurr durr.’”

Thancred idly kicks out a rock in front of Ikael and loosens his grip, and Ikael stumbles. “Oops,” Thancred intones dryly.

Ikael tuts at him. Thancred presses his lips together to stop a smile as he glances up at the outcropping they’ve reached.

“We can sit over there,” he says, pointing to a large boulder at the top. He begins to climb, letting go of Ikael.

“Oh. Yeah.” Ikael’s voice has a sardonic lift to it. “No problem at all.”

“Really? Glad to hear it.” Thancred crouches down, reaching out to Ikael, who stares at him.

“Come on, now,” Thancred says. “You trust me, right?”

Ikael slowly moves his hair away from tired eyes. He smiles.

~*~

“So what did you want to talk about, hm?” Ikael is sluggishly unwrapping the cookies he has brought, taking care not to tug at his bandages.  They had to retie the ones on his hands; frankly, that had been the whole reason Thancred had planned the climb, since Ikael had seemed more inclined to keep them on the more tattered they became. But even he cannot argue against a tear or two being too much of a risk for infection.

Thancred says nothing for a minute, instead breathing in deeply and looking out over Mor Dhona. A breeze fans through his hair; fresh, crisp, keeping him alert.

“It is more of a question I am curious about having answered,” he says finally. He glances down, to their feet hanging over the ledge. “You do not _have_ to answer, however, if you do not feel comfortable in doing so.”

An oatmeal-raisin cookie sticks itself in his field of vision. “What is it?” it asks.

Thancred takes it, bites. It is good, of course.

“I am… curious about the events in Ishgard,” he begins slowly, carefully aware of his words. “You lost someone dear to you. I am wondering how you coped.”

Ikael does not react negatively, thankfully. Instead, he gently taps Thancred on the shoulder, and when Thancred looks, frowns worryingly at him.

“Thancred?” he says softly. “Did something happen?”

“Recently? No,” Thancred takes another bite of the cookie. It is gone, just like that—too small of a thing to last long enough. “Just… what you know. But I handled that the way I did, I suppose. You were there for it.”

“I remember.” Ikael gives him rueful smile. “You nearly bit my head off when I tried to speak to you about it. Although rightfully so. I am glad that—”

He pauses. “I am glad… you did not shut everyone out,” he says slowly. “I was afraid you would, honestly. It seemed likely. But you did not.”

Thancred looks up, at the sky. “She is there, somewhere,” he says as Ikael leans against his shoulder, giving a small yawn. He remembers himself at the last moment, and glances down, but Ikael seems unperturbed by the mention.

“She is,” he agrees softly. Thancred relaxes.

"I... do miss her," Ikael mumbles after a hesitant pause. "I-I know how... it may seem. But I do. She was nothing but kind to me."

Thancred does not reply to that, only swallows around the lump in his throat and blinks hard. _She was nothing but kind to everyone_ , he does not say.

“I… was not very happy,” Ikael starts after a minute or so of thoughtful silence. He nibbles on his own cookie, and hands Thancred another. “Fairly angry. At the people who were responsible, at Ishgard as a whole, at Alphinaud. At Aymeric and Estinien, even. I thought they were fools. Impulsive, reckless fools.”

“You did not tell the Lord Commander that on your date, did you?” Thancred asks. Ikael laughs.

“No,” he says, a smile in his voice. “I talked to him about moogles and cream puffs. It had become… easier, by then. We were all picking ourselves up again, for better or for worse.”

Thancred makes a neutral noise at that, but he cannot say he disagrees. Picking themselves up… perhaps. In a way. “So you took it out on Coerthas’s training dummies, then?”

Ikael shrugs. “They weren’t alive, so no. I took it out on the Heaven’s Ward. Calmed down a smidge after that. We found Y'shtola soon afterwards, which helped.”

Thancred remembers the first hug he had gotten in moons, after the Bloody Banquet. “And me,” he adds.

Ikael giggles. “And you,” he says. “But, I… was hopeful. To have a chance of… well. I-I… was expecting a bit much, perhaps. From… everyone around me. It didn’t really work out.”

Thancred's gaze falls at the memory. He remembers those times, everything around him seemingly slipping away from him the second he barely touched it. Not willing to deal with Ikael’s neediness, but not wanting to be another person ignoring his autonomy. Nothing that can be changed now, he supposes—indeed, he does not even know if he _would,_ given the chance—but… they ended up here, did they not?

“I think,” Ikael mumbles, yawning once more, “The… anger started to bleed out when I spoke to Alisaie, one night. We were speaking of… things, looking at the stars. I was struck by how… new the world was to her. She was so young, but she had accomplished so much, to herself. I felt… proud of her. I do not know.”

He shifts, adjusting himself against Thancred's side to lean even more weight on him. Thancred takes another cookie from his lap.

“So what you are saying,” he says through a mouthful of crumbs, “is that I should have gone to Alisaie Leveilleur, then forced her to monologue to me about her limited life experience.”

Ikael gasps in false indignation. “Don’t you dare say anything mean about Alisaie,” he says. “Or I will angrily stare you to death while being physically incapable of doing anything.”

Speaking of his body’s current state, it is seemingly getting heavier and heavier. “Is that so?” Thancred says, and Ikael’s reply is fittingly cut off by a yawn. “Well, then, answer me this before I die. Why did you not redirect any of that anger outwards at Y'shtola and I? Was it because we were not involved directly? Was it because you found us after the fact?”

Ikael yawns again, for longer this time, and stretches. Thancred patiently waits for his unequivocal bout of wisdom.

Ikael shrugs. “Tired,” he says.

Thancred lolls his head around to look at him. Ikael blinks lethargically. Smiles.

“Were you answering my question,” Thancred asks uselessly as Ikael’s eyes start to close, “Or simply speaking your mind?”

“Mmhm,” says Ikael.

“You are going to drop the last cookie,” Thancred points out.

“Take it,” Ikael mumbles, voice already as heavy as his body.

Thancred sighs, but does take the cookie, and waits for Ikael to fall asleep. Then he carefully picks him up, glances down the way they came, and decides to take the scenic route.

~*~


	77. star bright

“This is not funny,” Ikael says in a high, most likely panicked voice (Y'shtola cannot tell; he sounds too squeaky). “This is incredibly not funny.”

“Hm,” Y'shtola says neutrally, curling a finger around her chin. She, personally, thinks it is extremely funny, but as the person Ikael has gone to as a last hope, she should probably not share her opinion.

“Perhaps you might put a bucket on your head?” she suggests.

“A _bucket?!_ ” Ikael’s squeaking increases in pitch. Y'shtola squints at him slowly, mostly to shield her eyes from the brightening of his glowing hair.

“Or a helmet,” she rectifies. “At least that will be a bucket with holes.”

“Can you—” Ikael seems to realize that his best option is to calm himself, and takes a slow breath in, then out, before continuing. “C-can you fix it?”

“Hm.” Y'shtola allows a smile to curl up her cheeks. “I don’t know; I think it quite suits you, Warrior of _Light_.”

Ikael stares at her, then groans. “Oh gods, that’s horrible,” he says. “That’s horrible. Don’t tell Thancred or Yda that—they won’t leave me alone. Seriously. Please do not.”

Y'shtola laughs at her own joke for a solid ten seconds before sighing and shaking her head. She strides forwards, reaching out to feel his hair.

“I can help you not look like a cheap Starlight celebration, at least,” she concludes after a long inspection. “But the glow will, to some amount, persist. It will fade in time, hopefully.”

“Please.” Ikael clasps his hands together. “I will bake you _all_ the sweet tarts you want.”

Y'shtola _does_ like his ugly little sweet tarts—their taste more than makes up for their appearance. “Alright,” she says, pleased. “Come with me to the library, then, and help me research a solution.”

~*~


	78. out of time

_“Leave us!”_

Two words from Y'shtola—a sharp gaze, keen and bright, a determined set to her mouth—and that is all it takes. Minfilia looks upon them one last time with tears in her eyes, but tightens her grip on the lantern and flees. A silent goodbye. They look at Ikael.

“No.” He is already shaking his head. Thancred and Y'shtola’s forms are blurring in his vision, but he smears a trembling hand over his eyes and they come into focus.

“Ikael, we are _out of time._ ” Y'shtola’s voice is exasperated, but the edges of it are fond. Sad, he thinks. It has taken a long time for him to learn her language, but… finally, he can understand her.

“You need to look after Minfilia.” Thancred's thoughts are on the Antecedent first and foremost, of course. Ikael sniffles, tears gathering in his eyes once more.

Then, impulsively, he darts forwards and hugs Thancred. As tightly as he can, thinking, _I love you. Please be safe. Please._

He jerks away when Thancred starts to hug him back, and gifts him with a watery smile. “There. Now you owe me a hug,” he says. “I-I… aim to collect on it.”

“Ik—” He hugs Y'shtola too, before she can speak his name, holds her small frame close for as long as he can bear. She quietly hugs him back, and he does not want to think on what that means. But when he draws away, she is giving him a smile with her sadness overgrown, and the painful conclusion reaches him anyways.

With one last glance back, he runs away.

Abandons them.

~*~


	79. cinnamon rolls

“You are not delaying everyone by an afternoon just because you want to forcibly glut your food down their throats, are you?” Thancred asks, squinting at Ikael’s loud yellow apron since it hurts his eyes. “Because _that_ would be more than a bit ridiculous.”

“Oh, shut up, Thancred.” Lyse is bright as sunshine today, most likely out of mere happiness at being included for once. “Let him bake! Important meetings can’t happen on empty stomachs, after all!”

“Three eggs…” Ikael mutters to himself, staring into space. Then again, a little louder: “ _Three_ eggs.”

“Two eggs,” Y'shtola responds, setting aside the requisite amount, “And one egg _white._ ”

Ikael’s large ears perk up instantly, as does his tail. He looks ridiculous, in Thancred's opinion.

“Ah!” he exclaims.

“Do… cinnamon rolls usually require so _much_?” Lyse says, looking over the ingredients Ikael has laid out with a worried eye. “I feel as if you are going to make enough to feed half the Ala Mhigan army!”

“‘ _We_ ,’” Ikael corrects as he squats down to adjust the oven. There is a whir of aetheric life, and the inside begins to emit a very faint glow.

“Why do you have to heat it up before?” Thancred is mystified.

Ikael stares at him. Thancred gets the feeling he was not supposed to ask that question.

“He is going to distribute whatever is left over to completely random strangers, Lyse,” Y'shtola says, since Ikael does not seem as if he is going to answer her. “Fear not.”

“Alright!” Ikael claps his hands together. He is noticeably happy at having so many people under his tutelage (or at least as a captive audience), and Thancred has to smile at the excited flush to his cheeks. “You two, start mixing these ingredients together in this bowl,” He thrusts various items at Thancred and Lyse, “And Shtola and I will do the other half.”

They get to work under Ikael’s cheery and watchful eye. He is a good teacher; patient and gentle, although repetitively corrective at mistakes. Nothing less than perfect for something he deems important, Thancred supposes, finding that he does not mind. Lyse, for her part, seems to be striving to exceed Ikael’s expectations, and even seems to be pulling Thancred into some sort of competition over who can best follow his instructions.

It… was not too long ago that Ikael was more than a little upset with her. Thancred does not know what eventually happened, but since Ikael invited her to this activity, it is reasonable to guess that they have evened out whatever wrinkles lay between them. Lyse certainly does not seem to be taking this opportunity for granted. Honestly, her overattentiveness is a little sad. Thancred gently touches her arm with the back of his hand when she mutters a curse after fumbling with the flour and spilling some of it on the counter.

“It is alright, Lyse.” _Ikael will not get angry with you, and definitely not over a small mistake_ , he wants to say, but does not, because Ikael himself is within earshot. “The dough is not an enemy you have to beat up. Add less flour at a time and mix it slowly. See? Taking it easy makes it… ah, easier.”

Lyse stops, startled out of her self-directed aggression, and looks at Thancred—to catch his gentle smile. The tension melts from her shoulders. She smiles back, a bit ruefully, and starts adding the flour into their mixture significantly slower.

Thancred readjusts his grip on the bowl. He glances over at the miqo’te, who are working together with ease. They have become closer during the past year, and the difference is plain to see. Thancred will admit he is a little jealous; he had noticed the “Shtola,” and although he had heard her shortened name from Ikael’s lips before, he does not quite recall when it had started happening. Ikael and Y'shtola share a familiarity, now, that Thancred and her do not have, in a way, but they… _do_. It is…

Thancred mentally derails that train of thought. Well. Ikael is definitely not speaking _truthfully_ when he cries about how he is always alone and no one loves him, that is for sure. Whether he believes it or not… is another question. Thancred, in a sudden strike of both warmth and petulance, briefly entertains calling him _Kael_ now, but he has a feeling that privacy is integral to that truth. There is a risk that Ikael would… not appreciate it.

“Thancred?” Lyse is calling his name. “Your turn to stir! My fingers hurt.”

Thancred dutifully lets go of the bowl, letting Lyse grab hold of it before he takes up her previous task. He glances over at Ikael and Y'shtola, who are—

… Much further along than they are. Damn it.

“It’s alright, Lyse,” Thancred reassures her. “Because we are taking our time, it means we are putting a lot more care and effort into this endeavor than they are.”

“I didn’t say anything,” says Lyse.

“I have an idea.” Thancred lowers his voice. “I keep mixing, and you sneak off and call them by linkpearl. Pretend to be a… cookie vendor, or something.”

“Why would a cookie vendor have their linkpearl contacts?”

“Then they will be distracted, and we will catch up,” Thancred continues, ignoring her. “Heh. Have you ever seen a miqo’te use a linkpearl? ‘Tis quite entertaining.”

“Did you know, Thancred,” Y'shtola says at a normal volume, “That it is possible to break a… _particular_ bit of your anatomy as one would snap a twig? Now I think _that_ is a far more entertaining thought.”

“Haha! That is quite funny,” Ikael agrees, seemingly out of pure joviality and not because he has heard anything Thancred has said. He is in another corner of the kitchen, in fact, smearing a couple of bowls with butter.

Thancred shoots Y'shtola an extremely disconcerted expression that he hopes she cannot make out. Lyse, next to him, giggles, and Thancred pouts at her. This is not fair—he is _surrounded_.

“Okay! Everyone dump their dough in here,” Ikael chirps, tail curling happily as he brings the bowls over. “One lump per bowl!”

“Oh, are we finally done? Can we leave?” Thancred asks, wiping his hands off on Lyse’s apron. She punches him in the arm (and he expertly hides his wince).

Ikael’s face creases into something both patronizing and sympathetic. “Darling,” he says. “ _Sweetheart_. No.”

“Do you simply wish to eat raw dough?” Y'shtola’s tone seems to imply that her mental quantification of Thancred's intelligence has, against all odds, sunken even further for suggesting that they leave because his hands are cramping. “Go ahead, then. I shall watch.”

 “Oh! I know this part!” Lyse claps her hands together. “We are making the cinnamon bit, right?”

Ikael presses a forefinger to the bridge of his nose and raises his eyebrows, to what effect other than looking ridiculous Thancred cannot presume to guess. “Yes! Well, more or less. Good job, Lyse! Points for Lyse.”

“Whoo!” Lyse cheers, pumping her fist. This draws a startled laugh out of Y'shtola, who is already covering her smiling mouth when Thancred whips around to look.

They patiently line up to wash their hands. Thancred holds back behind everyone else to watch them, at first to debate how sneakily he can flick flour at their hair, and then out of unbidden affection as his mind eases at their circumstance. It is a rare thing to have a moment where more than a couple of them can spare a moment to relax at once. Thancred will admit that it is… quite something, to see them all unwind like this. It unfolds a freer, happier side of them that has been tucked away far too often and for far too long.

 _You need something to love, old man_ , he thinks to himself. Ikael is rattling on about something insignificant that has caught his interest, and he is smiling and warm and happy. Lyse seems to respond in kind, with heartfelt exclamations and a hand that is hovering over his arm when it is not squeezing or resting on it. Y'shtola is…

Well. Y'shtola is staring at him.

“Wash your hands,” she sniffs.

Thancred gives a small bow, then blows a cloud of flour from his hands directly into her face.

“Done,” he says with a grin.

By the time Y'shtola stops coughing, he is already hiding behind an open-mouthed Ikael.

~*~


	80. starlight, star bright

Three people is _certainly_ enough for a party. Ikael doesn’t know where everyone’s (well, the two other people’s) criticism is coming from. From a non-festive spirit, that’s where.

“—and I really do have to go back to my mountain of paperwork, Ikael! Ikael?! Are you listening to me?”

Ikael is not, in fact, listening to Tataru—he is too busy worrying about whether she and Alisaie will like his presents. He smiles, leaning down to kiss her on the cheek. The bell on his hat falls and hits him on the forehead. He carefully repositions it.

“Yes, darling. Don’t worry; I’ll take you back to Kugane when it’s over, okay? Or maybe tomorrow, if you want to stay for the evening?”

He gives Tataru the best pouting face he can manage while dressed up like a child’s fantasy of the Saint of Nymeia. She spasms stressfully for a moment before slowly melting.

“Oh, alright,” she says, touching his cheek. “But don’t give me that look to make me do things! It’s unfair.”

Ikael winks at her before heading back to the kitchen to check on his pie. It is coming along nicely—it will be done in a few more minutes, he thinks. He will wait and make them hot cocoa in the meantime.

He finally goes back to the atrium with three mugs of hot cocoa and his pie on a tray, and smiles when he sees Alisaie leaning forwards in a chair, head in her hands, paying acute attention to what Tataru is yattering on about.

“And I’m just worried he’ll forget, you know?” Tataru is pressing her hands together. “He forgets a lot of things! Once he went clothes shopping with me and forgot to bring his coin purse! Sometimes he forgets that he’s put something in the oven! It’s a fire hazard!”

Ikael clears his throat to get their attention, hoping the flush of embarrassment he can feel in his cheeks is not visible. He… does tend to forget _some_ things. Of… varying importance.

Tataru squeaks, spinning around to face him. Ikael smiles at her awkwardly. Alisaie simply looks amused.

“I, uh, didn’t forget to bake this, though!” He lifts his tray, showcasing the pie.

“It’s a bit… small.” Alisaie looks as if her smile is somehow paining her. “You weren’t expecting anyone else, then.”

Ikael coos at her immediately, setting his tray down on the coffee table. Poor thing probably needs a hug. Ikael will gladly give her one.

“Why are you making that ridiculous noise?” Alisaie says into his—expensive, but very nice-feeling—coat, voice muffled. “This isn’t a _pity_ party, it’s a _holiday_ party. Of… some sort. I am sure.”

“Yes!” Ikael’s ears attempt to perk up, but cannot, since he is wearing a hat. It shifts a little. “Well. Starlight cakes are usually relatively disgusting fruitcakes. So! And especially considering that we are all very sad and lonely, I thought it best to bake a pie!”

He beams, looking from one of them to the other. Tataru beams back, clapping her hands. She _loves_ his pies. At least, that is what she tells him whenever it is time to eat lunch. Or breakfast. Or supper.

Alisaie looks at his pie. “… What kind?”

“Rolanberry crumble! My favourite. A-ah-ahh—pie, that is. Ye—yes.”

Alisaie takes her mug of hot cocoa, peering at the pie with renewed interest. Neither she nor Tataru seem to have noticed Ikael’s stumble, thank Hydaelyn. He is not quite ready for _that_ secret to slip out yet.

~*~

“This is a very… oddly-shaped present, Ikael.” Tataru is holding it as if it might bite her. “I’m almost worried to unwrap it, to tell the truth.”

“It’s safe, I promise!” Ikael insists, pressing his hands to his cheeks. He waits excitedly as Tataru slowly tears away the wrapping paper, tail whipping from side to side. When she finally holds out the gift and stares at it, he jiggles on his toes.

“It’s a leash for your carbuncle!” he says happily. “I-I-I thought—you know, since it’s always running away! This way it can’t!”

It is a _brilliant_ idea. Ikael is a _genius._

“I… cannot believe you thought of that! Thank you, Ikael,” Tataru says, and Ikael jiggles harder. She likes it! Ikael is so happy. He has been so _worried_ …

“And for _Ali_ …” He digs in his bag, searching for her gift.

“What did you just call me?” Alisaie asks. Her voice is soft with something akin to disbelief. Ikael is not paying attention.

He pulls out his second gift with a flourish. Alisaie takes it hesitantly, and he smiles at her, patting her on the head. Hm—she needs to wash her hair.

“It is… a very red dressing gown?” Alisaie holds it up once she finishes unwrapping it. “Uh…”

“Red is your colour!” Ikael tells her, in case she has forgotten. “And this was so nice! I wanted to get another one for myself, but I didn’t have enough money! And besides, it wouldn’t be special that way.”

“I…” Alisaie looks bemused. “… am grateful to… finally have something I can…” She looks at Tataru,  who nods at her for some reason, “… read… books! In. Thank you, Ikael.”

Ikael coos at her happily, opening his arms for a hug. She smiles, and gives him a gentle one.

“I have more!” Ikael declares. He reaches into his bag again.

“I… did not get either of you anything.” Alisaie’s voice is low with regret. “I am sorry. With everything that has been going on… to tell the truth, I barely noticed it was approaching Starlight.”

“Oh, it’s alright.” Tataru smiles gently at her. “It is your company that matters, after all! Your presence, not your presents.”

She giggles. Ikael giggles, too, since that is a very funny joke.

“Okay.” He takes out his last two gifts for them, which he has not wrapped, and hands them out. “I-I… knitted these. I-I am sorry if the craftman—if the—if it is not… very good.” Ikael is very much a beginner.

“Oh, this is a lovely blanket, Ikael!” Tataru shakes hers out; a lovely lavender and pink. Alisaie’s is red, orange, and brown—autumn-themed, Ikael had tried. It is Starlight, but… he likes the colours.

“Mine is, ah, the same size as Tataru’s, I see,” Alisaie points out. Ikael reaches up to tug at his ear nervously. He ends up jingling the bell on his hat instead.

“I-I, um… tried to make sweaters. Apparently those are not very… beginner-friendly projects.”

Ikael picks up the scarf Tataru had given him as a present and sticks his face in it, inhaling. It smells like very lovely wool.

“It is a treasured thought, Ikael.” Alisaie’s voice sounds kind. “And the yarn seems very exp—I-I mean… It looks as if you put a lot of effort into this, and that is what matters.”

“… Wait.” Tataru’s voice does not sound as kind. “How much did the yarn cost?”

Ikael whines into his scarf, his tail hitting his leg. He paid for all of gifts out of _pocket_.

~*~

“Hello, Thancred.”

Ikael gazes upon his unmoving, self-declared best friend. He looks dead—Ikael does not like that at all. Not at all not at all not at—

He draws in a shuddering breath. He leans down to kiss Thancred's nose, then his forehead. His cheek. His other cheek. Draws back.

“I-I-I, uh, knitted you a-a… um, blanket?” Ikael’s voice rises in pitch with his uncertainty. He squeezes the soft wool in his hands. “It… was supposed to be a sweater, but… o-oh well. Haha!”

He is going to start crying again. He sniffs, then carefully places the… blanket… on Thancred's chest, smoothing it down.

“I-I made yours dark red, bec—because… you said you liked it. Um, remember? U-um… some time ago.” He sniffs again. “I-I… um… know you don’t have the best fashion sense. But I can—I-I can agree with you on this one. I-it looks—it looks good. On you.”

He gives Thancred one last kiss on his cheek, then straightens up.

“Happy Starlight,” he says softly. “H-hey. You know what’d be a great present?”

Thancred does not reply. Ikael gazes at him for one long, last moment, then leaves the room, quietly closing the door behind him.

~*~


	81. eye of the beholder

"You are so beautiful."

Ikael's voice is quiet, touched with affection and some other emotion that Thancred cannot quite place as reverence. His eyes are soft, steady, meeting Thancred's straight-on and not darting down to the bedsheets after he speaks.

Ikael's gaze still does not stray from his ten long seconds later, and Thancred finds does not quite know what to say. He clears his throat, quiet and awkward only in his bemusement. He is the one who looks away first, who feels the unfamiliar heat of embarrassment creep up his cheeks.

Ikael smiles at him softly.

"Ah... thank you," Thancred says, somewhat at a loss. He gives himself a mental shake. He must needs sort out his manners. "You are too."

 Ikael shakes his head. Thancred mirrors the slow movement. "No...?"

"No," Ikael confirms. Thancred is even more confused than he was before, although that is not saying much.

"Well I do, objectively, think you... are," he tries. This is not a language he speaks, but he can try his best to not act too much like a goby out of water.

Ikael shifts underneath the covers, and taps him on the chest. "No," he repeats. "You are saying it back, which does not count. I was saying it because it is... because I was thinking it."

Even Ikael is trying to rephrase for his understanding. Thancred still does not quite get it.

"But I do think it," he insists, not wanting for Ikael to be hurt that the thought is not returned. "I can say it, if you wish. I think you are beautiful too, Ikael."

This time, Ikael's smile is touched. He gently taps Thancred's lower cheek, however, and repeats, "No."

Thancred gives up. Scanning Ikael’s eyes to understand the intent behind them is a fruitless endeavour, he finds. Very well then. Thancred will wait for him to explain.

Ikael does not explain. He leans forwards—for a frightening moment Thancred thinks he is going to kiss him and that he himself has horridly misunderstood this entire conversation—and does give Thancred a soft kiss, but only on his nose.

Thancred's eyes flutter as he thinks on what to say. This is… platonic, right? Right? With Ikael, to be honest, it can sometimes be hard to tell.

“Boop,” says Ikael.

Well, that settles it. If it is a romantically-inclined interaction, it is certainly not a successful one. Thancred smiles back, feeling an airy chuckle in his breath.

 “Why, thank you,” he says. Ikael giggles, bright, happy, and comically delighted. Although Thancred feels as if he is still unfailingly saying the wrong thing, at least it is still amusing in some regard.

Still. “I think you have a very charming personality,” he tries.

Ikael begins to laugh at him, patting his face rapidly. Thancred still has no idea what in the name of Thaliak’s left nipple is going on, but he finds himself grinning regardless.

Some things do not have to be understood to be shared, after all.

~*~


	82. partying, partying, no

“Just pick something that you do not mind wearing,” Thancred says. “Honestly, I don’t know why you want to look at _my_ clothes. They will not fit you, and I fear half my wardrobe will irritate your skin.”

“Hm?” Ikael turns around, pulling his lollipop out of his mouth with a soft pop. _Oh_. Thancred is… trying, bless him, although he still does not quite get it. Ikael pats him on the chest. “Ah. It is… not like that, really. It is more the—the— _personality_ of the texture. Clothing is usually fine.”

He turns back to his selection. “And I am here because… I do not have anything red that is nice! ‘Tis a _party_ , Thancred; I cannot just wear whatever I would normally.”

Ooh—Ikael catches a flutter of delicate fabric in the far right. He slowly pushes long shirts and trousers out of the way, taking his time to enjoy the feeling of sticking his hand in hanging clothing.

“You wore a bathing suit to our last party,” Thancred points out.

“It was _hot_ outside,” Ikael defends. And then they went to the beach afterwards! At… Ikael’s insistence, admittedly. He sticks the lollipop back into his mouth.

Thancred sighs. “You say that as if you will not insist on taking a dive into the nearest snowbank in your smalls because ‘’tis the season,’”

“M’ smalls wou’ get wed,” Ikael says. “Wou’ do it naked.” Ah! There is the fabric again. Ikael tugs at it with his thumb and forefinger until he manages to pull out a thin, feminine sleeve.

He turns to Thancred and slowly raises his eyebrows.

“I will give you three guesses as to whose dress that is,” Thancred says. “And, ah, I would rather you not wear it, please. I… the sleeves would rip.”

Ikael hums around his lollipop, nodding sympathetically. “D’you have anythin’ similar you wouldn’ min’ me wearig?”

“Hm.” Thancred motions for Ikael to step aside, and he does, bouncing on his toes. He wonders what Thancred is going to wear—hopefully something pretty! Ikael will let him borrow a scarf if he wants. Or one of his stretchier cropped shirts.

“Here. Is pink close enough?” Thancred pulls out a sheer, silken-looking outfit, slung up unconventionally on its hanger. “F’lhaminn brought this back from Thavnair. I had been intending to gift it to Lyse, but she has her sister’s dress now.”

Ikael tilts his head, straightening out the fabric so he can see it in its full. No sleeves—good. Skirt… less good, but Ikael can deal with it for one evening. Perhaps he can wear leggings underneath so that he will not feel his legs brushing together.

“Id is very wovely,” he says in some awe, letting his fingers drift over the beaded design at the collar. “You wou’ lemme wear id?”

When he looks back at Thancred, he is smiling. “Yes,” he says. “It will look good on you.”

Ikael makes a fretful noise and pulls out his lollipop. “I fear I will look too awkward.” Ikael is not… the most graceful in fine clothing.

“Nonsense! You will be splendid, I am sure.” Thancred's smile turns his eyes warm. “A beauty on the dance floor.”

Ikael points his lollipop threateningly. “I am not dancing,” he says.

Thancred tuts at him. “You _are_ dancing, because it will turn every eye in the room. What better way to get all the handsome men’s attention, hm?” He winks.

“They will see me make a _fool_ out of myself,” Ikael groans, shifting his weight agitatedly. “I am definitely not dancing.”

“Hmph,” Thancred says cryptically. He gives Ikael a once-over, as if sizing him up. “We will see. In any case; dancing or not, at least it will be fun.”

~*~

Ikael is so, so _bored_.

Over the course of the evening, he has come to the firm conclusion that political-oriented celebrations are not his thing. The people here do not laugh at his awkward attempts at humour, and he has been asked about his opinion on the petit fours three separate times. Ikael does not even know what a petit four _is_.

A few friendly faces are milling about, of course, but they are important people busy talking to other important people, and Ikael is both too shy and too hesitant to rudely butt in. He had found Lyse for a precious minute, and she had giggled with him over the word “buttress,” but even she had been swept away in order to rub well-connected shoulders.

Thancred is here, at least (he is wearing the nice red bandana Ikael had gotten him!), but he has been mysteriously absent. Ikael had spotted him once or twice with Riol, but the most he had gotten from him was a regretful glance and an apologetic smile.

 _Scion business,_ Ikael thinks gloomily, popping another one of the odd, bite-sized confectionary cakes into his mouth (he thinks they are Ishgardian). All hopes of being able to steal Thancred away to gossip with have been long dashed; Ikael had seen the looks exchanged by the guards and the way a select few people have been growing increasingly alert as the night drags on. A security risk, perhaps? Ikael would not mind punching an unwelcome guest or two.

His suspicions are confirmed two questions about petit-fours later. Ikael is biting into one of the last little confectionaries left when the staticky ding of his linkpearl sounds through his ear.

 _“Ikael, are you inside the complex?”_ Riol’s voice crackles through. Ikael hums an affirmation, shoving the rest of the sweets into his mouth as he looks for the closest exit.

Riol updates him on the situation, and Ikael cracks his knuckles as he makes his way over to where a group of opportunistic rebel thaumaturges are apparently causing trouble. At least the night will have _some_ excitement.

~*~

Adrenaline is still running through Ikael’s veins when he reports to Riol, hopping from foot to foot and grinning from the thrill of the admittedly short fight. He is dismissed, and he is just about to resign himself to a few more bells of drawn-out ennui when he sees Thancred wandering towards him.

“Well, don’t you look more alive than you have the entire night?” he greets with a smile. Ikael coos and runs at him, throwing his arms open.  

Thancred laughs as Ikael collides with him, stumbling for a moment before regaining his balance. “It is good to see you too, Ikael,” he chuckles breathlessly.

Ikael kisses him on the cheek, then pats his face rapidly, beaming. “We can gossip now!” he says. His ears wiggle happily. “Oh, I found these lovely little sweets—I saved one for you!”

“Ah…” Thancred's face creases in sympathetic regret. “I fear I must needs be swept away for a bell or two to sweep this matter up with Riol,” he says. “I am sorry.”

Ikael’s ears stop moving, and he can _feel_ his expression fall. So Ikael will be… alone once more. That… He…

“That is not to say that I am leaving you without company!” Thancred adds hurriedly. He steps back from a dejected Ikael, glancing around. “Sadly, it cannot be mine own, but… Come on out! Yes, now. I thought your starstruck phase had long passed, no?”

Ikael is just about to resign himself to an evening of trying not to cry in a corner when a figure shyly approaches from behind a wall. Ikael blinks at it, taking in the dark, blue-ish tinted skin and hair, the long tail.

“Ukebe?” he says in surprise.

Ukebe gives him a small smile. “Hello, Ikael,” he says. “Apparently you are in need of some… uh…”

Ikael has stepped forward to carefully hug him. He kisses him on the cheek as well, then pats it.

“Hello,” he greets, a little confused when, after a second passes, Ukebe still has not replied. Ikael glances back at Thancred; has he done something wrong?

“You will get used to him,” Thancred says, apparently to Ukebe. “Use ‘yes’ and ‘no’ liberally, but nicely.” He bumps Ikael’s shoulder with his, then, and when Ikael obligingly turns around, gives him a long embrace.

“I expect you to barge into my room in the middle of the night with hot cocoa and a complete lack of any sense of reasonable sleeping schedules,” he says with a pointed look. Ikael nods, already slotting in the activity, then pops the sweet he had kept into Thancred's mouth.

“Ba-bye,” he says. “Don’t die before me.”

“Goodnight, Ikael.” Thancred takes the sweet out, then gives a deep bow and a wink before heading off with a swirl of his long, fancy coat.

“So… ah…” Ukebe speaks up awkwardly, and Ikael turns to him with a beaming smile. Time to have fun with a new friend!

“How were, um, the petit fours?” Ukebe asks.

Ikael stares at him.

“I, uh, saw you,” Ukebe adds, flushing slightly. “A few times.”

Ikael had not moved from the refreshment table the entire evening. Ukebe is not making any sense, but Ikael does not mind. People tend to not make sense a lot of the time, he finds.

“It is gossip time, darling,” Ikael declares, patting Ukebe on the shoulder rapidly. He can feel his spirits begin to rise once more. “Did you see what Alianne was wearing? Green looks lovely on her!”

 Ukebe’s face eases, then, into something a little friendlier and more comfortable. “It does, doesn’t it?” he says. He leans into Ikael’s shoulder. “Although speaking of green, did you see Coultenet? He…”

Conversation after that is easy and readily-supplied. Ikael’s opinion on parties will not change, but at least now he can complain about them to someone for at _least_ two bells.

~*~

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> Ukebe is from chapter 51


	83. invitation

“Might the lovely lady grant me a dance?”

Y'shtola has to contain her sigh as she turns around. She does not need to… _look_ , in her new way, to know who is speaking to her; indeed, his is a voice she thinks she will unfortunately recognize for the remainder of her years.

“Unless your injuries still ail you, of course,” Thancred continues. His voice, still lofty with aggrandized charm, betrays him only in how it quietens.

A passionate man still, then. Of course he is, and of course he is worried about her. Y’shtola does not hide her sigh, this time.

“You know I do not find myself drawn to such… frivolities as dancing when there are urgent matters to be concerned about,” she says. “Be as they may be delayed for an evening, I, for one, would rather lend my thoughts to mental endeavours rather than physical.”

She has been thinking on how to refine her aethereal shield; it should not have broken as easily as it had, even upon taking such a forceful blow. Perhaps had she had more time to focus on it—but there is no _time_ to focus in the heat battle. The room for improvement must lie within the possible acceleration of aetheric strengthening, then; she has a few ideas she would like to go over with Mhit—

“Do take a respite for _one_ night, won’t you?” Thancred breaks the chain of her thoughts. Y'shtola blinks as they scatter upon so easy an interruption. Perhaps her injury _is_ still taking its toll, then. “A rest would do you well, I’d imagine. Besides,” and his voice dips in volume once more, “’tis for Lyse.”

Y'shtola’s gaze lowers. He is right, of course—this celebration _is_ for Lyse, and all she and the others of the Ala Mhigan Resistance have accomplished. The least Y'shtola can do, Thancred is artfully not saying, is to attempt to participate.

She looks at him, then, letting her awareness expand. The line of his shoulders is more relaxed than usual, although there is still an undercurrent of alertness in the way he holds himself that is usual of him. He is also, she notes, extending a hand towards her, and his one visible eye seems fixed on hers, despite how futile an idea trying to make eye contact may seem.

Y'shtola considers, and then places her hand in his with some reluctance. Even were she not able to detect it, she would have almost _seen_ the smile that sprouts on his face at the gesture.

He bends down. Y'shtola feels the faintest brush of lips on the back of her fingers, unaccompanied by any scratchiness his excuse of an attempt at facial hair would bring. She fights back a fond eyeroll, and steps forward.

“One,” she says, “And keep it short.”

“An unusual request from a lady, but I will abide by it.” Y'shtola _doesn’t_ have to look to know he winks. This time, she allows her eyes to scan the heavens in search of an answer to why this man is like this.

“Shouldn’t be difficult for you,” she snipes back, and walks towards where the merriment has gathered.

~*~


	84. small activity

“Ikael,” Hien says, just before Ikael is about to head back to Ul’dah. “A moment of your time, if you would graciously grant me it?”

His voice is deep and grave even if his face is creased apologetically, as if he feels ill about delaying Ikael, but the matter he wishes to discuss is too important to put off for overlong. Ikael turns, one hand still held up to his linkpearl, and raises a finger.

Hien’s mouth opens in a silent “ _Ah_.” He bows, stepping back a yalm.

“I am sure you can hold off for a day or two.” Ikael continues his conversation. “I—No, Cecily, don’t ‘but, Captain,’ me. It is dangerous out there still, and I don’t want any of you getting hurt.”

He glances idly at Hien, who crosses his arms and nods. Ikael hums at Cecily’s staticky response in his ear.

“Yes,” he says. He frowns. “No. You know what? Tell him I’ll be there in the morning, alright? I’ll make everyone a big breakfast. Make up for it.”

His face hardens somewhat. “If I haven’t already made it clear: _No_ , and that’s an order.” He toes at the ground. “Alright… Yes. I-I… am sorry for yelling. Okay. Goodnight, Cecily.”

He switches his linkpearl off with a sigh. It is tempting to simply disconnect it and toss it somewhere for the night, but with all that is going on, he does not want to risk being off call.

“An order, eh?” Hien’s eyes, he feels, would have a humorous twinkle in them were they in any other circumstance. But the only indication Ikael has that he is being teased is the lilt his voice. “You are in a position to give those, then, _Captain_ Jelaar?”

“Ugh.” Ikael rolls his eyes playfully, but smiles. He walks closer to Hien so they can speak. “Don’t ever call me that—Raubahn doing it to bully me is bad enough! Unless you want to be _Shun_ ’d in front of the entire Alliance.”

“Noted.” Hien winks, and Ikael bites the inside of his cheek.

“So what did you wish to discuss?” he asks. A part of him idly—and cheekily—wonders if Hien has a more… _personal_ request. But he dismisses the thought, as entertaining as it would be. Hien seems serious. It makes a sapling of worry sprout in Ikael’s chest, to be frank; he hopes he is not going to be the receptor of any _more_ ill news.

“It is a…” Hien glances down for a fraction of a second, then back to Ikael, holding his head high. “… personal matter, actually. Might we speak somewhere more private?”

“After _that_ display earlier? Sure,” Ikael jokes, subconsciously moving his shoulder in an attempt to bump it with Hien’s. As they are not standing close enough to each other, he only manages to look perhaps a bit odd.

Something like surprise sparks in Hien’s eye, and then he laughs; a deep, hearty sound Ikael has heard strangely often. Ikael grins, sharp and a bit surprised at the easygoing reaction to his—rather impulsive, he will admit, but the battle had made his blood run hot and his mind move fast—flirtation.

“I am glad that my excessive and show-offish demonstration enthused you so,” Hien says, the ends of a chuckle still in his breath. He spreads his hands. “I fear I am but a humble samurai without the unwavering strength of my allies to ground me, however. You of all people would understand. But come now; we shall speak in your tent, since Yugiri is less likely to eavesdrop.”

Ikael glances around instinctively at the mention of Yugiri. He cannot _see_ her, but… well, one never knows. Ikael has found a battle-pastry missing from his belt more than once.

The enter the tent Ikael has set up for the night. It is large enough for two people to fit comfortably, if a bit snugly. Ikael immediately goes to put the kettle on, glad that he thought to bring it. Wedge is a marvelous engineer, in his opinion.

Hien kneels down on a flat cushion after laying his katana aside. Ikael sits across from him. He hesitates, then slowly scoots closer.

“Well,” Hien says, folding his hands together. “There is no two ways about this, then. Forgive me if I am blunt.”

He takes a breath. Ikael squeezes his ankles, rocking a little. His tail flicks.

“After Master Thancred, ah, got his… soul sucked out of his body,” Hien begins, and Ikael winces automatically at what he suddenly knows is going to be brought up, “You were… rather agitated.”

Ikael remembers. He scratches at his ear, staring at Hien’s toes.

“It, um… happens sometimes,” he mumbles. “I-I-I panic. Like—like that. ’m sorry if I… disturbed you.”

“It was unexpected, but I was only worried.” Hien’s voice takes on an affect that Ikael is not quite sure what to make of. “And I still am, to be quite honest. I did not get the chance to check in on you then; as you are aware, we were dealing with matters of our own. But those are well on their way to being resolved now, and there is a moment for us all to breathe.”

Ikael nervously picks at his brais. The kettle goes off and he jumps, then hurriedly scrambles up to pour the tea.

“Two minutes,” he tells Hien as he holds out his teacup. Hien takes it with a gracious, princely nod, and Ikael has to giggle. Does he practice doing that?

“But yes,” Hien continues as he no doubt realizes Ikael isn’t going to say anything useful. “A moment to breathe is all I need to take the opportunity to ask how you fare. I am… concerned for your wellbeing, Ikael. Especially with Alisaie being taken so recently—and so suddenly.”

“A-a-ah,” Ikael says. _Blunt_ , Hien had said, and, well, yes. It is… unexpectedly so. Ikael closes his mouth, staring at his cup. It is a Hingan blend, and Ikael has been told he is not supposed to add any sweetener. He does not like that.

“I apologize if I have brought up something you would rather not think about.” Hien’s voice has taken on that affect again, turning into something dulcet and quiet. “Truly; it is not my intent to pain you. We can change the subject, if you so wish!”

He pauses for a second to blow at his tea, dark lashes shifting down as he glances at it. His posture seems to… ease, a little, as if becoming more relaxed. Ikael anxiously hugs his knee.

Hien sips, makes a considering face, and continues: “But… I noticed that none of your companions seemed inclined to lend you their concern. Or even just an ear. It is not a little peculiar.”

His tone tilts at the last sentence, as if he is getting at something that Ikael cannot quite guess at. Ikael hides his face behind his teacup, ears folding down and tail flicking restlessly around his ankles. Hien is—right; it is an awkward fact, but it is true. Ikael is not… prone to developing strong bonds with the people he brings with him. He is no good at group chemistry and it is… difficult to stick to people. Or rather, it is difficult for them to stick _back_. Ikael is… Ikael is _too_ sticky. He is like… chewed taffy.

“Um. They, um. Aren’t really my companions in anything more than battle,” he mumbles. “More out of necessity than anything, you know?”

Besides, more than one person is not supposed to chew taffy at a time. That is disgusting. Ikael will stick to his one person, and rotate them as necessary.

“I did notice they departed rather quickly once the matter had concluded,” Hien states. His eyes, when Ikael meets them, are as sharp as his sword. Ikael quickly looks back down.

“They have, um… things to do,” he says. He doesn’t know, really—he does not ask.

Hien does not reply to that. Ikael fidgets, feels increasingly awkward as the silence stretches. He sips at his tea. It is not sweet.

“Ikael,” Hien says after what could have been a short amount of time, even if it does not feel like it. “How do you fare?”

Ikael harshly rubs at the curve between his nose and cheek with his forefinger. He pulls his knees up. He does not know… Is he supposed to switch people now? Hien is his friend, right? He had said as much, when Ikael had visited him. And… and now Alisaie is not there. Shtola is not there. Ikael is lonely.

“Ika—”

“I miss Thancred,” Ikael blurts out. Just like that, as if on cue, tears blur his vision. “I-I-I—h-he is my best—my best friend and h-he—he,” He pauses to hiccup airily, “He is not _back_ yet and he—” A dry sniffle, “He—he missed my name—my nameday and when he ca—came back he did not spend—he did not get—get to spend more than—than one time w-with me a-and—” A longer, slightly wet sniffle, “I-I-I _miss_ him and I-I wish th-that nasty voice would stop—would stop taking my—my _friends!_ ”

Ikael starts to cry in full force. “And—a-and—and I only _have_ four friends but—but I-I don’t know ab-about that really becau—because it’s a—a-a difficult label a-and…”

“Alright, alright, take it easy,” Hien says, holding out his hands. “I… uh… admit I wasn’t expecting all of that, but… ah… I’ll just let you…”

Ikael is busy messily wiping his eyes with the back of his hand. He sniffs, loudly.

“There, there,” Hien says, a bit stiltedly.

“You’ll drop your tea,” Ikael mumbles, because he is about to.

Hien glances over, and straightens the teacup just as it threatens to tip and spill. Ikael sniffles approvingly, tugging on his tail.

Hien gives a little cough, and then leans forwards. “I apologize; I am not the best at this. But have heart, my friend! All is not yet lost. We will get them back, I promise.”

His words do not register; Ikael is tired of hearing platitudes. He starts to wipe at his eyes with the back of his hand, hoping that Hien will hug him soon.

Hien’s tone gentles somewhat. “Is there anything I can—”

That will do. Ikael shuffles forwards gladly, pressing his hands to Hien’s abdomen and face into his sternum. He gives a little sniff.

“Uh,” says Hien.

Ikael is just about getting comfortable when he feels a soft chuckle. Intrigued, he tilts his head, flattening his ear to Hien’s chest so he can feel it better.

“I should have known this would be the solution,” Hien says lowly, humour that Ikael does not understand still in his tone. “Ah—no! No, I am not complaining. Please, do what you will.”

Ikael, who has started to hesitantly draw away, slowly moves back. He feels himself begin relax at the warmth, the proximity. “Amsothefula,” he mumbles.

Hien sips at his tea. “Pardon?”

Ikael does not want his _own_ tea; he presses it into Hien’s free hand until he obligingly takes it. “Thank you,” he mumbles.

Something warm and uncomfortably ceramic briefly touches his head—Ikael’s ear flicks at it in annoyance. “You are very welcome, my friend,” Hien says. “Now; we can stay like this if you wish, but I brought some… what is it? Triple Triad? Triple Triad cards, if you wish to take your mind off things.”

They can play _strip_ Triple Triad. Ikael’s tail curls approvingly.

“Okay, but we use my rules,” he agrees. He is… not very good at card games. He spreads his hand over the criss-crossed scar on Hien’s shoulder, feeling the grooves with his thumb. “And you’re not allowed to cheat, or steal my cards.”

Hien sighs dramatically. “Such restrictions!” he groans. When Ikael glances up, he winks.

“Eorzean Triple Triad it is, then,” he says. “I hope you are prepared to lose.”

Ikael does not remember winning more than a single game of Triple Triad. “I-I hope—I hope _you_ are prepared to lose!” he throws back, creatively.

“Your boastful blustering makes me tremble in my sandals,” Hien assures him. “Come now—enough wallowing! It is time to forget the troubles of the day. I’ll even let you go first.”

~*~


	85. always be friends

“What is this strange garlean contraption?” Thancred looks at it in suspicion. The device in question whirs at him defensively, shaking its coils as if threatening to shock him for daring to cast doubt upon its nature. Thancred thinks it rather resembles a torture device for nutkin; he will warn his away.

“Oh!” Ikael scuttles over. “That makes tea.”

Thancred watches as he gives the device a little pat, then rubs at his eye tiredly, apparently forgetting the spilled lemon juice on his fingers. The action seems to be a jarring reminder, because Ikael shrieks and runs to the sink a second later.

“Ow, ow, ow,” he whimpers, shoving his head underneath the running faucet.

“A gift from Cid?” Thancred questions, only now noticing the Garlond Ironworks logo on the… kettle? (It probably has some ridiculous name, like _the Boilmaster 4000_ ). “He seems rather fond of giving you things. I thought the ovens were a fair enough expense.”

“I had to pay for those,” Ikael’s garbled voice calls from the sink. “But yes, it’s from Cid. He is a lovely friend—he is nice to me and doesn’t make fun of my outfits. You could do to learn from him, yeah?”

“I do not fancy myself an engineer, unfortunately,” Thancred says. He slowly pushes a button on the oven that he had seen Ikael press earlier. Surely enough, it lights up. Thancred ducks down and peers curiously at the pie baking inside.

“No, you don’t,” Ikael says in a tone that is far too smug to be coming from someone who just smeared lemon juice all over his eye. “That’s why Cid is my _other_ best friend, whom I only never talk about because it would make you seethe with jealousy.”

“Is that _so_?” Thancred straightens up. “Strange; ‘other’ implies the existence of another one.”

Ikael slowly looks up, water dripping down half his head in a ridiculous, startlingly unattractive manner. He scoffs. A spewed droplet hits Thancred on the arm.

“You’re my only friend,” he says, as if it is obvious. “That makes you best friend by default.”

He pulls his tunic up by its collar to rub it over his head. Thancred should… turn the oven light off. He does not; he stands there without doing anything, and licks his lips.

“ _I_ am your only friend?” he says, and maybe he should not demand like he is, but—oh. “What of the others? What of the high regard Lyse holds you in, what of how Alisaie looks up to you as if you are as unreachable as the sun?”

 Ikael has gone still. Thancred regrets his tone; he speaks again, gentle: “I cannot be the only one you care for.”

Ikael’s fist clenches in his tunic. “I didn't _say_ that!” he ejects forcefully—and loudly. Thancred winces automatically.

“I don’t—I-I didn’t—I-I don’t—That doesn’t mean _that_!” Ikael’s voice is getting increasingly (and exponentially, it seems) upset. “Why do y—why do you—that doesn’t—that’s not what it _means!”_

Thancred holds out his hands placatingly. Hindsight is Crystal-clear, he supposes. “Then forgive me for assuming,” he says. “What do you count as ‘friend,’ then?”

“I don’t _know!_ ” Ikael explodes. He bats Thancred's hands away, expression twisted. “I-I don’t—I think dif—differently than you! I thought you knew that!”

Ah— _that_ is what he is reacting to, then. “I know you do,” Thancred attempts to soothe. It does not seem to work; Ikael scowls, and bats him away further.

“No you _don’t!”_ he exclaims. “You _don’t!_ You don’t get it at all.”

His voice quietens on the last sentence. He goes silent, turning from Thancred to put away the dishes.

“Then explain it to me?” Thancred ventures after a moment.

He can almost hear Ikael’s frown. “No,” he refuses. He huffs through his nose. “None of your knowing. Is bad,” he mutters.

He is upset still, then. Thancred will give him a minute to cool off (after which he will, most likely, start sobbing his apologies). He turns back to the oven, kneeling down to watch the pie bake.

Surely enough: five minutes later, Ikael is hesitantly poking him.

“’m sorry,” he mumbles, opening his arms when Thancred looks at him before enfolding him in a hug. “Sorry, sorry,” he mutters into Thancred's neck.

“It is alright,” Thancred says. “I should not have pushed you. How are you feeling?”

Ikael shrugs loosely, nudging closer. “Mhnmahnm,” he grumbles into Thancred's collar.

Thancred pats the back of his head. “How long until the pie is done?” he questions.

Ikael looks up abruptly, knocking Thancred's jaw up with a dull _clack_. He swears, recoiling from the hit.

“I’m sorry! I’m so sorry!” Ikael is already flailing around the kitchen, apparently looking for something. “Shite—I’m sorry!”

Thancred spits out a mouthful of saliva and blood onto the floor. Ikael make a horrified noise.

“You’re cleaning that up,” he coos, pressing something soft and frozen to Thancred's jaw. “Yes you are. Yesh.”

“Don’ byoody talk to me yike tha’,” Thancred grunts. Ikael coos louder, kissing the air.

“U-um,” he says after a minute of silence, seemingly out of nowhere. Thancred looks at him, sees his eyes dart around the kitchen. “Not… not-friends like me because I do things. To—to make them happy.”

So they are speaking of this now, then. Thancred waits, but Ikael’s gaze seems willing to fixate on anything but him. _Very well_. “And why do I like you, do you think?”

Ikael stills. Breathes in, out. Then finally, light green eyes flicker towards Thancred.

“I don’t know,” Ikael says. He smiles a little, hesitantly.

Thancred hums, considers the best way to approach this. After filtering through a dozen possible responses, he settles on, “I like you because you make me happy without doing things.”

He speaks easily, but carefully. Best to throw Ikael’s language back at him, on subjects like these. _And so do more than just I,_ he wants to add, but he does not. One small step at a time.

Ikael nuzzles his cheek. Kisses it gently.

“Thank you,” he says softly. “I-I like you too. At first because you were pretty and nice.”

Thancred waits.

Ikael sighs in contentment, moving Thancred's braid out of the way before gently resting his head on his shoulder.

Thancred gives up on waiting. “ _Aand_ …?” he drawls dramatically, giving Ikael a set-up, should he need one.

“Hm?” Ikael pets his hair.

Thancred huffs. Ikael never had good taste. “Why do you like me now?”

Ikael shrugs. “I dunno,” he mumbles.

Bastard thinks he’s clever; Thancred can feel him smiling. He is about to utter an even _more_ clever, completely scathing retort, but a mildly foul scent drifts to his nostrils, distracting him.

Thancred sniffs. Frowns, sniffs again. Gags a little.

“Ikael,” he says slowly, squinting at Ikael’s cheerful _Mhm?_ He tries to turn his head so he can see what is being pressed to his jaw, but Ikael, frustratingly, simply follows his movements. Thancred gives up.

“What… is this?” he asks carefully.

“Oh!” Ikael shifts. “Um. Dodo. I was about to throw it out, actually.”

“You were about to…” Thancred swallows down a flash of sudden nausea. “How… old is it?” he ventures, not sure if he is wants to know the answer.

Ikael shrugs. “Maybe a year or so,” he guesses.

“Ah,” Thancred says, very faintly.

Ikael kisses the side of his head. “You hold this,” he says, pressing Thancred's hand to what he can now—to his slowly-mounting disgust— identify as gradually-thawing dodo meat. “I didn’t finish with the dishes!”

He gets up, giving Thancred an extra pat on the head, as if the small consolation will make up for redistributing the contents of his stomach. Thancred stares after him with a forlorn eye.

~*~


	86. sand ills

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> addendum: he's like 17 here

There is sand in Kael’s sandals.

It is not a little troubling, in his opinion. There is much greenery in this oasis, so why is there _sand_ , too? Should it not simply cease to exist and turn into dirt? It seems to have no problem in doing so with the water.

Kael gently sets his fishing rod down before taking his sandals off and violently shaking them.

“My eyes,” says his mother. “Kael.”

“Sorry, Mamae,” he mutters, craning his neck away as a grain of sand lands in _his_ eye. “One second.”

A hand touches his elbow and he stops, arms still held aloft. He is still blinking to clear his vision when he looks at Jela, but the frown on her face is visible enough. Kael’s stomach sinks.

“I am sorry—did I hurt your eyes, Mamae?—I am sorry,” he blurts, all in a rush. His ears flatten back agitatedly, but she soothes them with a hand on his head.

“Then do not shake,” she admonishes with a small smile. “It is alright.”

Kael nods vigorously, already turning the lesson over in his head. _Consequences happen regardless of acknowledgment, Kael. Actions do not exist in a state of suspension._

“I love you Mamae,” he says in a stumble, because she has not said whether he had hurt her or not. Jela’s eyes dart to the uneasy flick of his tail and her hand on his head gentles, stroking slower.

“I love you too, kitten,” she responds, easy and genuine. Kael relaxes.

“Now please pick up your fishing rod,” she says. “It is going to fall.”

Kael hurriedly does so. Then he scoots up close to Jela and drops his head on her shoulder. She gives him a little pat.

~*~


End file.

**Author's Note:**

> (For those of you who are new to the series: WoL is touchy-feely, and him and Thancred are fairly close by now.)

It isn’t an uncommon thing for the Warrior of Light to vanish from important headquarters detailing operations he is very much involved in not even a day after said operations have occurred. That being the case, no one pays it much heed when Rhalgr’s Reach has barely started to get its head settled on its shoulders and Ikael is nowhere to be seen. For all they know, he’s out somewhere rescuing someone’s lost kitten by aggressively drop-kicking a tree.

When Alphinaud runs through the Reach very loudly asking (one could even say yelling) at anyone who will listen to him if they have seen their violent figurehead, a few people start to worry. That being said, Alphinaud is a sweet soul, and tends to fret himself into snowy-haired knots whenever Ikael gallivants off into the face of danger, and so when he receives a few verbal head-pats and not much else in lieu of answers, he chooses to abandon his search until the next day.

It is the next day, now, and it is a busy one. The Scions are scattered about, either performing various chores (in wake of Ikael’s absence, most likely) or taking some time to rest and recover from their injuries.

Alphinaud has decided to harass his friends in the healers’ quadrant about their absentee Warrior of Light, and is in the process of fidgeting nervously as Krile reads over the crumpled letter he has handed to her with a frown on her face.

As soon as she is done she looks up at him, visibly alarmed. “Alphinaud!” she exclaims, “Why didn’t you go to anyone earlier?”

“I did!” he cries in response, wringing his hands in an agitated sort of manner. “Everyone said I was overreacting.”

Sitting on a cot nearby, Alisaie rolls her eyes.

“Did you show them this?” Krile asks.

“They didn’t give me the chance to,” Alphinaud says. “No one seemed to take me seriously.” A puzzled look passes over his face. “I don’t know why. I always have success when Ikael is around.”

“Yes. How odd,” Y’shtola intones. Then she turns to Krile. “What does it say?”

“It… details the contact information of a group of people Ikael has listed as his replacement,” Krile answers, sounding worried. “It seems that under the circumstance that he… that he has failed to check in with his retainers, they were to assume the worst and send this to us.”

“Who is assuming the worst? That’s not very sportsmanlike,” Thancred says out of nowhere, and flips a dagger in his hand. Alphinaud jumps a good few startled ilms in the air, and Thancred grins at him, leaning against the wall.

“Still looking for our elusive friend?” he asks, and blinks in surprise when Krile thrusts the letter at his waist.

He takes it, skimming it briefly. It’s written in a familiar scratchy script, and says,

_Hello everyone! This is Ikael. If you’re reading this, I’m most likely dead—_

Thancred looks up. “What is this,” he says flatly.

“A hyur showed up yesterday to give it to me,” Alphinaud tells him, and Thancred watches him carefully as he speaks. “He claimed to be Ikael’s retainer, and said that I-Ikael hadn’t checked with him for over a _week_ and—”

“Calm down, Brother.” Alisaie speaks up. “Before we all decide to lose our collective cool over something that Y’shtola and I have not even seen yet, may we at least know what it is?”

Thancred nods, and begins to read out loud:

_Hello everyone! This is Ikael. If you’re reading this, I’m most likely dead, but that’s okay! I’ve told Gaill and Simeon to give this letter to you in case I ever miss my weekly check-in. This details a ~~contingency~~ contingincy plan to help you lot deal with ~~your~~ the primals and all. I’ve talked to a few of my fellow adventurers with the Echo, and while we’re not friends, they’ve agreed to step in in case ~~I die~~ anything ever happens to me! I hope you will make them all feel welcomed, since it is very nice of them to help you out!_

“It… is very nice of them,” Alisaie repeats nonsensically.

“He spelled ‘contingency’ wrong,” says Thancred. “Ah… the rest of it seems to be names and necessary contact details… Oh—here at the end,”

_That’s about it! As a closing note, I just want to say that I love you all very much. The Scions have been like a family to me in more wa—_

“Stop,” says Y’shtola.

Thancred stops.

No one says anything for a moment. Thancred's grip tightens on the letter every-so-slightly, and an imperfectly-drawn heart gets crinkled.

Then they all begin speaking at once.

“This is ridiculous. He wrote this?” Thancred.

“All right, so are we looking for…” Alisaie.

“Well naturally, he can’t actually be…” Krile.

“He always takes off his linkpearl; they itch, you know.” Y’shtola.

“There’s no need to worry, I’m sure he forgets…” Alisaie again.

“He’s probably just buried underneath his mountain of responsibilities.” Thancred.

“Stop, stop!” Alphinaud has to raise his voice to get them all to shut up, but eventually they do, and one by one turn to look at him.

“This isn’t helping,” he says, spreading his hands. “We need to formulate a plan to find Ikael, not all try to step over ourselves.”

“Alphinaud is right.” Krile pipes up. “Which is why I volunteer to go look for him.”

Krile hasn’t known Ikael for as long as the rest of them, but he had always been open and warm towards her. When he had begun to shyly but firmly shower her in baked goods after her kidnapping (and had discovered her weakness for sweet tarts), he had easily won her heart.

“Krile, you cannot.” Y’shtola shakes her head. “You are still recovering. Ikael is very probably somewhere dangerous, and you just can’t take that risk.”

“He saved my life.” Her voice is quiet, but resolute. “I… I want to return the favour.”

“As do we all,” says Alisaie, “But we have to be reasonable. Brother, you said his retainer came to you?”

“He could still be here,” Alphinaud realizes, catching on. “Yes, I’ll—good idea. I’ll go see if I can find him. Thancred, Alisaie, come with me—I seem to have ill luck searching for people these days. You two, stay here in case Ikael shows up.”

“Look at you, doling out orders as if you’re in charge of us,” says Krile. Alphinaud starts to stammer out a reply, and she chuckles.

At the sound, everyone loosens a little, beginning to adjust to the situation. They will find Ikael—there is hope yet. He can't have gotten too far away, right?

“Right,” says Alisaie, and they set off.

~*~

“A tall hyur with tanned skin and brown hair, you say? Yes, that’ll be easy to find in Ala Mhigo.”

“He has an accent,” Alphinaud says, and Thancred snorts.

They have been searching for around ten minutes, and have quickly discovered that there are in fact a surprising amount of people in Rhalgr’s Reach, and that it takes time for Alphinaud to stop and squint at all of their faces.

“He has a point, Brother,” Alisaie tells him. “Without your invaluable help and guidance, we are blind.”

“Ikael mentioned two people in his letter,” Thancred interrupts before the two of them can start arguing. “Is this man Gaill or Simeon?”

Alphinaud pauses. “Ah…” he says.

Thancred stops. “You didn’t even ask his name?”

“He came up to me and gave me a letter that implied Ikael was dead! I wasn’t really in the state of mind to ask for his _name_.”

“Gods help us,” mutters Alisaie, looking around. “At least one. Please. Sometime.”

Then she says, “Oh,” and points.

Sitting near the edge of the water not too far away from them are two men. One is an elegant, handsome Au Ra holding a fishing rod, and the other is…

Rhalgr must be listening to Alisaie’s prayers. The other is a muscular hyur, with long brown hair falling across broad shoulders. His torso is completely bare, and there are pugilist hora lying discarded near his side.

“Yep. That’s him,” says Alphinaud promptly.

“Of course it is,” Thancred mutters. They make their way over to the men, who look up as they approach.

The hyur’s face splits into a grin when he sees Alphinaud. It is a strange look for someone whose master has just presumably died.

“Well if it ain’t the boy!” he exclaims. “Oi, Simeon, I told ye ’e’d come te find me again.”

“Yes, yes,” grumbles the Au Ra. “Doubtless they’ve come to express their condolences and assign us to a new master.” His long face is frowning, as if the idea of working more, even for pay, disagrees with him.

“That it?” says the man who must be Gaill. “You lot got ventures for us te work for ye?”

Thancred crosses his arms. “No,” he says shortly. “We’ve come to ask you about Ikael.”

“You want glory stories?” Simeon says moodily. “Well, here’s one: Gaill here somehow always gets more fish than me. I don’t know how. It’s not like you can punch a fish out of the water.”

“It ain’t like yer gonna find someone te take a fisherman, either,” Gaill returns. “Ye useless bastard.”

“Fish are a high market in Doma,” Simeon says primly. “Momodi knows that.”

“Do you not care that your master, as far as you know, is _dead_?” Alisaie snaps, interrupting them. “Doesn’t that bother you, even just a little?”

Gaill and Simeon look at her, and for a moment they both wear matching expressions of surprise.

“Ikael isn’t dead,” says Simeon. “We don’t believe that by a long shot.”

“Aye,” Gaill agrees. “Have ye seen ’im fight? ’e’s like a whole bloody battalion’s worth of firepower.”

“We thought…” Simeon frowns at them. “We thought you were going to reassign us.”

“But we don’t want ye to!” Gaill is quick to jump on that. “Someone’s gotta look for ’im, and I maybe ain’t worth as much as ’im in a fight, but I can ’old me own.”

“Brilliant. Great. That won’t be necessary,” says Thancred, who is quickly beginning to lose patience. “Just… tell us what you know about where he could be, and we’ll do all the fighting for you.”

“Ye and them ’ere kiddies?” Gaill asks. “Perhaps leave ’em out, aye?”

Thancred takes a deep breath. What is that meditating trick Ikael always uses to calm himself down? Something about chakras? He’s in Rhalgr’s Reach; perhaps he can find a monk to teach it to him.

“Oi, I started me monk training not too long ago,” Gaill says. “There’s a trick ’kael uses te calm down—and ye look stressed, mate. I can learn ye, if ye’d like.”

Thancred gets a sudden, random urge to punch something.

“The last time he checked in with us was roughly a week and a half ago,” Simeon says, either noticing Thancred's last lingering threads of patience leave his body, or realizing that they’re getting nowhere. “He said something about going to investigate a bandit encampment in Gyr Abania. It’s too dangerous for us to scour the area; we were going to—well, _I_ was going to—look for adventurers to hire.”

“Ah—half a bell later and we finally get the information we need,” says Alisaie.

“Thank you very much for your time, gentlemen,” Alphinaud thanks Gaill and Simeon with a short bow, “And I can assure you, Gaill, that my sister and I can handle ourselves just fine. Good day.”

And with that, they leave.

~*~

“Are you sure it’s there?” Alphinaud asks as they exit the Reach. “Raubahn said—”

“Raubahn said that there are two major bandit encampments in the area,” Thancred interrupts. “I can take one, and I trust the two of you can take the other? I could work a lot faster if I—”

He breaks off. They’ve rounded a large boulder that makes up part of the cliff face, and standing in front of them are half a dozen men, weapons pointed directly at them.

Ill-suited weapons, upon cursory inspection—and their armour is ill-fitting and rough, and one of them is dragging something behind him in a very unprofessional—

The something shifts, and suddenly looks like a body.

“Oh, gods,” Alisaie breathes.

“Who’s that?” slurs the body in an achingly familiar voice. “Sounds like… people. You should be… not here.”

“Shut up,” snaps one of the bandits, and kicks him. He makes a choking noise.

Then the bandit falls backwards, slowly, from the force of the dagger lodged in her skull.

“Uh…” says another, and steps forward. Thancred glares murderously at him.

The bandit clears his throat, and toes the body of his now dead comrade to the side a little. “W-we have come to… demand ransom,” he says.

Thancred throws another dagger. One of the bandits on the left end drops dead.

“Uh, h-hey! You can’t keep doing that,” says the one who had spoken up. His voice cracks halfway through his sentence.

He clears his throat.

“Twelve have mercy,” Alisaie mutters, drawing her sword.

“Oh no,” says the bandit.

“Oh _yes_ ,” says Thancred, and smiles.

~*~

Ikael is bloody, bruised, and battered when they reach him. That alone is evident, but they can’t see much else—he’s curled himself into a tight ball. He stays like that, even when Thancred kicks the last of the bodies away to clear a path.

“Ikael.” Alphinaud says the word as if he is afraid of it, and reaches forward to touch Ikael’s matted hair.

“Don’t—” Thancred grunts, but then Ikael’s head moves, and he’s looking at them.

“Hey,” he croaks. “I’m okay.”

He has dried blood smeared over an entire side of his face, his lip is cut, his eye is swollen shut, and there is an ugly purple bruise spreading across his cheekbone. He smiles.

“W-we’ve got to get you back to—we have to…” Alphinaud is starting to hyperventilate. Alisaie, beside him, looks horrified.

“I’ll carry him,” Thancred says, because he knows neither of them are going to be of any use at the moment. “You two, run back and get a bed prepared in the healers’ wing. Tell Y’shtola and Krile what happened, immediately.”

“O-of course,” says Alisaie. Her grip tightens around her sword.

Neither of them move. Thancred barks, “ _Now._ ”

They seem to come to themselves, and scramble off. Thancred turns his attention to Ikael, trying to assess his injuries. It’s hard, because he’s covered in blood and is still curled up tightly—

Thancred winces. “Ikael,” he says, “I need to have at least an overview of your wounds, all right? Can I see?”

“Mostly cuts and bruises,” says Ikael, not uncurling. “Arm is broken. Hurts to walk.” He burrows into his elbow.

Making him try and walk is the furthest thing on Thancred's mind. “Okay,” he says, deciding to accept that answer and not push, and carefully works his arms underneath Ikael’s form. Ikael lets out a hiss of pain, and Thancred utters a quick apology.

He straightens up with Ikael’s head tucked against his shoulder and his bad arm cradled to his chest. Ikael’s tail winds itself around Thancred's waist as if to hold him there.

Thancred swallows, and heads back to the Reach.

~*~

Krile and Y’shtola’s reactions are professional and prompt; they have seen many a bloody body in their time. Ikael is whisked off and ushered to a prepared bed, and then Thancred is being shooed away.

“I know you have to work,” he says to Y’shtola, looking at Ikael’s prone form lying some ways away, “But I have knowledge of his injuries that could help—I did carry him here.”

“Thancred,” Y’shtola says firmly, “You can’t. You barely know more than we do, and that is not worth your hovering.”

“I won’t hover!” Thancred gestures to where he had last seen Alphinaud and Alisaie. “I know he’s in a vulnerable state, Y’shtola, and I know that much is to be expected—I won’t gawp at him the entire time like those two!”

“Why are you so angry?” She challenges, crossing her arms, and he stares. “You’ve been moody this entire time. Nearly everyone you’ve interacted with has borne the sharp end of your tongue today. Is it just because of Ikael’s condition, or is it something else?”

Thancred exhales sharply, annoyed. Now is really not the time for—

—Ikael is looking at him. His gaze meets Thancred's just for a split second, and his eyes widen fractionally. He reaches out a hand, mouths something that almost looks like Thancred's name—

“I-I…” Thancred stutters.

A look of something close to sympathy passes over Y’shtola’s face. “Thancred,” she says, not unkindly, “You may see to him after. But right now, I have a job to do. I promise Ikael will live—from the looks of it, his injuries were inflicted to cause pain, not to debilitate.”

That does not make Thancred feel any better.

“And he is strong,” Y’shtola continues. “He will persevere. Now leave.”

Thancred gives Ikael one last look. Green eyes watch him hazily, then slowly drift shut.

Thancred sighs, and turns to leave. He will come back later.

~*~

It has been a day since Ikael has been brought in, and it has been a long one. He has been mostly unconscious, although he had had to be sedated at one point out of necessity, but he heals quickly, and his wounds are not severe enough to impair him.

The light of day is waning now, and the evening sun is kissing Ikael’s temple, creeping downwards to cup the bruise on his cheek. Y’shtola cannot see it, per se, but she can feel its warmth; on her hands, in her hair.

Ikael’s aether is stirring—he is close to waking. She gently pushes it back at him—waves in a sea—and it recedes.

No one else is near enough to see them. Y’shtola reaches out, not with her sight but with her hand, and finds Ikael’s head. His hair is soft—he had received a careful bath, although there hadn’t been much to be done while minding his injuries. But the blood has left his hair and the dirt has been washed off his face. It is enough.

Y’shtola finds his ear—long, furred. The area around it is delicate, and she scratches gently.

Ikael’s consciousness laps at the shores of awareness once more. His head turns, into her hand, and he purrs a little.

“You are an embarrassment to your race,” Y’shtola tells him softly, still petting him. He does not reply, and she smooths his right ear down from where it has been crushed against the pillow.

“Thancred is angry,” she says. “He does not like it when people get hurt needlessly—he is a passionate man, at heart. I only pray he will not take it out on you.”

The skin near Ikael’s eye feels swollen and angry. Y’shtola calms it with a touch of her aether.

“Perhaps it is something else, too,” she says. The sun is cooling, now. It leaves Ikael’s lips, lets him be underneath the blanket. Y’shtola can feel the world fall asleep.

“Perhaps we all fear that some day,” she says, “You will give up.”

~*~

_He is in so much pain._

~*~

 Thancred does not like waiting. He does not consider himself “fidgety” by any means—Ikael is the one who always runs off to perform some ridiculously mundane yet violent task—but he is used to being able to go wherever he wishes, to see whatever he wants to see.

Alphinaud and Alisaie are next to him. _They_ are fidgeting.

“He will be fine,” Alisaie says. It is the third time she has said it.

“Yes,” Thancred agrees, pressing his back to the wall. He does not doubt it; Ikael has come back from worse.

Their hair glows in the moonlight. Alphinaud tugs on his ponytail.

“I-I mean, psychologically, he’s been through worse, right?” he questions. “There was… well. There were probably a few things.”

Thancred gives a noncommittal hum. “Torture can’t be that bad when you’ve killed primals,” he intones.

“Right, of course,” Alphinaud mutters, apparently too distracted to detect his sarcasm.  

“He’ll be…” Alisaie trails off, catching herself this time.

“Fine, yes,” Thancred sighs. “If you truly are worried about his wellbeing, don’t be. Most of the damage is superficial, and aside from his broken arm, it should all mend soon. He’ll be off to do whatever it is you want him to soon enough.”

“Of course,” Alphinaud says. He frowns a bit, almost talking to himself. “The Warrior of Light would not be bested by a single band of bandits.”

Thancred closes his eyes. He does… _not_ like waiting.

“I’m going to go in,” he says abruptly. “Y’shtola may have need of me. Stay out here.”

He doesn’t say anything to else to them, and heads past the sliders.

He can hear voices speaking in low tones as he approaches, and recognizes them as Ikael and Y’shtola’s. He moves faster, not wanting to eavesdrop, but catches their conversation before he can announce himself.

“They threatened to cut it off,” he hears Ikael say in a muted voice.

“But they didn’t,” Y’shtola replies quietly. “You found a cruel group, Ikael—you are lucky they wanted you for ransom.”

“I am lucky the twins and Thancred showed up when they did,” Ikael says. “A miqo’te does not need his tail.”

Thancred clears his throat and raps on the wall, and Ikael looks at him. Y’shtola does not, doubtless already aware of his presence.

Ikael smiles, and Thancred feels something inside of him he hadn’t known was there unclench. Ikael’s smile is true, and not the façade of a broken man.

“Thancred,” Ikael greets, voice warm, and Y’shtola gets up as Thancred comes to sit by the bed. “I shall leave you be for now,” she tells Ikael, “And I will get some sleep. Call myself or Krile if you need to.”

He nods, and she leaves, tipping her head at Thancred.

They are alone.

Thancred waits a beat. Then he tells Ikael, “Your retainers are idiots.”

Ikael looks surprised for a moment, and then he laughs, low and long.

“My,” he says between chuckles, “They made quite an impression on you, didn’t they?”

Thancred thinks of Ikael’s letter. He remembers how some of the ink had been smudged near the end, around where Y’shtola had cut him off. “You should have cried more when you wrote your goodbye note,” he says. “And ‘contingency’ is spelled with an ‘e.’”

Ikael stops laughing. “Huh,” he says, eyeing Thancred carefully. “Who had the misfortune of pissing _you_ off, eh?”

 _You_ , Thancred wants to say, but that is neither true nor fair. Instead, he opens his palm, and drops a scrap of paper onto Ikael’s lap.

“I found your delivery,” he says, “But I do not know who it belongs to.”

Ikael’s features go lax. He reaches out and thumbs the paper.

Thancred says, “You could have killed them.”

“I could not.” Ikael’s gaze darts to his. “There were so many of them, Thancred. It would have been…” He looks back at the note.

“Easy,” says Thancred. _For you._

“A huge loss of life,” Ikael says.

 He is holding the paper between his thumb and forefinger, and smooths it out. It is small, just two short sentences written in the hand of a dying man:

_Juliah, I am sorry. I love you, sweetheart._

Written… _almost_ in the hand of a dying man.

“Will she not fail to recognize the handwriting?” Thancred asks.

Ikael shakes his head. “She is six,” he says. “And she has naught of his.”

“And now she will have the knowledge that he is dead,” Thancred says.

Ikael’s eyes narrow at him. “Must you be so callous?”

“You are feeding lies to a child which took you a week to craft,” Thancred replies. “Perhaps she should know that there was nothing of him left.”

“There was nothing left of a man she barely knew,” Ikael bites. “There was something left of a man who was cruel, who tortured people for the pleasure of it, who killed ruthlessly, and yes, it took me a week to choose which one I wanted her to find.”

 _Was? But…_ “You did not kill him,” Thancred realizes. He couldn’t have—he would have been too physically weak.

“No.” Ikael slumps. “You did.”

Thancred looks at the soft glow of the oil lamp, casting long shadows across their section of the wing. He thinks.

Eventually, he says, “One day you will not be able to keep fighting.”

Ikael closes his eyes tiredly. He says, “I know.”

“Hydaelyn’s blessing does not extend past death,” Thancred tells him, and suddenly he is irritated.

Ikael’s eyes snap open. “I _know_ ,” he repeats, and perhaps the week _has_ taken its toll on him, because he matches Thancred’s tone.

“You keep risking your life for pointless tasks.” Thancred keeps going. It is spilling out of him, now, the words tripping over themselves. “Whatever people tell you to do, you do it. If anyone so much as looks at you with a sad expression, you help them.”

Ikael looks annoyed. “That’s what I _do_ ,” he says. “I help people. It’s in the _job description_.”

“And if Alphinaud tells you to jump off a cliff, would you do it?” Thancred challenges. Ikael’s ears flatten back. “You would become a hero—his famed Warrior of Light. But you do not care about that, do you? So why do I know you would say yes?”

They are on the edge of a precipice, he knows. And they can both—

“What is it exactly that you have a problem with?” Ikael asks, and he is glaring at Thancred now. “Spit it out; I cannot play your word games right now.”

So they are doing this, are they? Fine.

“You are a _person_ , Ikael,” Thancred snaps. “Not a machine. _Our_ choices we make by _ourselves_ , and it is not your job to save us from them!”

“You are my friends!” Ikael cries. “You’ve got to learn to _accept_ help when it is offered, Thancred—you cannot just wallow in self-hatred forever!”

“ _I can deal with my own problems!_ ” Thancred snarls, because, oh, that had hit a mark he hadn’t been protecting. “I don’t need your _godsdamned_ help—I don’t need you to sacrifice your own wellbeing for me!”

“Oh, so I can’t make _my_ own decisions, is that it? I just have to let you run yourself into the ground because you’re too much of a stubborn _arse_ to admit that you need my help!?”

“I don’t _want_ it! One day it will be too much for you, Ikael, and I will not let you send yourself to the Void for dealing with _my_ swivving problems because you’re too _bloody_ soft to leave well enough alone!”

His words echo around them. The silence that follows is not entirely unexpected, but becomes more unbearable the longer it lasts.

Shock has settled over Ikael’s face. Then his features slacken, and Thancred watches him retreat into himself. He curses quietly. Ikael’s eyes widen at the sound.

“I…” Ikael’s voice is dry. He swallows, and purposefully directs his gaze to Thancred's collar.

He says, hoarsely, “Please leave.”

Thancred cannot deal with this. He cannot deal with Ikael not fighting back, not—

He shuts his eyes. He is still angry. He is…

The whole quadrant must have heard them.

He can’t. He gets up without a word, and leaves.

~*~

Outside, Y’shtola sighs. That could have gone better.

“This is why communication is important,” she tells Alphinaud and Alisaie, who are standing there with conflicting expressions. Alisaie seems to be caught in a permanent wince, and Alphinaud is simply staring, wide-eyed.

“ _Idiots,_ ” Y’shtola mutters, and Alphinaud starts.

“I—why didn’t you—you could have intervened!” he says. “Ikael… that was not fair to him! He…”

“You are only saying that because you feel guilty,” Alisaie tells him, rolling her eyes. “He is not without his faults, Brother, like any other person. And Thancred isn’t wrong.”

“I didn’t intervene because Ikael is a grown man, and that… _conversation_ has been a long time coming,” Y’shtola says. “Although in retrospect, it could have at least waited until he could walk properly.”

“Gods, this whole thing is a mess,” Alisaie says. “And I feel like we’re just here to eavesdrop and provide colourful commentary.”

“Then let us leave,” Y’shtola replies, and ushers them away. “Surely there is more drama in the Reach than that which involves our dear comrades.”

~*~

Someone is lying next to him. Ikael becomes aware of this quietly, the information trickling into his head with the rest of the morning: The lamp by his bedside has gone out. His good arm has fallen asleep. The sun is up. He is hungry. Someone is lying next to him.

He glances down, barely moving his head, and sees white hair fanned out on the bedsheet, framing a handsome but tired face. _Thancred_.

Ikael’s breath catches, but he lets it escape. When had Thancred… no matter. They… need to...

“Thancred,” Ikael says into the quiet of the morning.

Thancred's eyes open, and Ikael can see the second it takes him to come to full awareness. It is short.

Thancred looks at him. One of his eyes is shot silver. Ikael has already seen it. He wonders idly where Thancred's bandana is.

Thancred breathes in, then out. Regret slowly snakes its way across his face.

“I am sorry,” he says, voice quiet.

Ikael turns his head, looking up. Above him, shadows are softening into existence. Ikael wonders what it would be like if he could touch them.

He says, “Me too.”

Thancred shifts closer to him and moves to join his gaze. Ikael leans into him. They stay like that for a short eternity.

Eventually, Ikael says, “I… I shouldn’t have pushed you.”

“And I shouldn’t have challenged you so,” Thancred responds immediately.

“I mean… ever.” Ikael shifts, and lays his good arm across Thancred's chest. He needs the comfort the contact brings. “I need to… I need to let you sort things out by yourself sometimes, I know.”

Thancred reaches up to find Ikael’s hand, and pulls it down. He cradles it in his own as Ikael searches for words.

“I want to help you if you’re hurting,” Ikael says, voice going hoarse. “Please. I care about you.”

“I know,” Thancred replies, equally quiet. “I know, Ikael. It is… hard for me, to accept your help especially. You of all people have so much on your plate.”

“I can’t help it,” Ikael whispers. “I have to do it, Thancred. Everything that… no one else can. I made my contin… _gen_ cy plan, but even then…”

“I know,” Thancred repeats. He squeezes Ikael’s hand.

It is quiet.

“Can I tell you a secret?” Ikael breathes. In this moment, he feels as if neither of them exist.

“I won’t tell a soul,” Thancred promises. Perhaps he feels the same.

“I hate it,” Ikael says. “I hate the words ‘Warrior of Light.’ I hate the way people look at me. I hate—” His voice starts to crack. He takes a shaky breath. “I hate being everyone’s first resort. But… helping people is different. If I can tell myself I’m doing it to help people… I can get through it, whatever it is. And helping you?” Breath. “The people I care about? Sometimes I feel as if it is the only thing that keeps me sane.”

“… Alright,” Thancred says. “Alright.”

Another small eternity passes. Ikael asks, “Can we make a compromise?”

“Far ahead of you, my friend.” There is a smile in Thancred's voice, and it makes Ikael give a watery one as well.

“I help you,” Thancred says, “And… yes, you help me. But there is a word we both have to respect, without question.”

“What is it?” Ikael asks.

Thancred says,

“‘No.’”

The sun has discovered the shadows on the ceiling, and is chasing them away. Ikael’s body pulses, maybe with pain. He ignores it.

“Okay,” he says after a beat. “Okay, I can do that.”

~*~

“See, I told you he would still be here!” a voice exclaims, and then half of the Scions of the Seventh Dawn are crowding around Ikael. “Oh… and Thancred too, I guess?” Krile continues.

Thancred, seated on the side of Ikael’s bed with a book of what appears to be… questionable poetry, acknowledges her with a nod.

“What do you mean, I’d still be here?” Ikael asks, carefully sitting up. He winces when he jostles his broken arm.

“You have a habit of running off,” Alisaie tells him with a faint smile. “To solve… whatever great mystery has caught your attention.”

“The only mystery right now is that smell,” Ikael snorts. “Did someone burn down a bakery?”

They shift around, one could say nervously.

“… Er,” says Alphinaud.

Krile lifts up her arms, and now Ikael can see the golden-brown (and somewhat black) pie she carries.

“Oh,” he says, looking at it. The crust is falling off the tin on one end, and the lattice is unevenly placed and a… _bit_ burnt.

“Ah… it’s beautiful,” Ikael says with a warm smile, and all of them unconsciously relax. Y’shtola sighs.

“I was worried,” she mutters. “But we are glad you like it.”

“We wanted to do something for you,” Alphinaud says, “Since you do so much for us with nary a complaint.”

“Aw,” Ikael drawls. “Thank you all. And now I have lunch!”

Thancred glances up from his book to peer at the proffered confection. “Good gods, what is that?” he exclaims.

Ikael kicks him. “Really, I love it,” he tells his friends. “It’s… ah, fairly big, so…”

“We shall all partake,” Y’shtola says, sounding resigned. “We can’t subject you to the entire thing. I told you you put it in for too long.” The last sentence is directed at Krile.

“ _I_ wasn’t the one who insisted on placing it on the lowest rack! Alphinaud said…”

They start arguing, and Ikael smiles to himself, tipping his head back until it is resting against the slide behind him. It is past midday, now, and the sun is shining hot and strong, determined to obliterate any shadows in sight. It beats down on the Scions as they speak over one another, sliding in between their words, keeping the edges warm.

Family indeed.

~*~

 

**Author's Note:**

> it hurt me in my soul to make them fight, and the rest of the fic is just completely indulgent therapy for that lol
> 
> (shoot me something u want me to write on [ tumblr ](http://draw-you-coward.tumblr.com/) or just talk to me ^^)


End file.

**Author's Note:**

> Set before and until "One of these days." Contains spoilers up til and including Stormblood.
> 
>  
> 
> (reading of other works in series not required, although always recommended! ^^)

Thancred doesn’t notice too much about the novice adventurer when they first meet, other than the fact that his fighting forms are a bit stiff and that yellow is _really_ not his colour.

The adventurer introduces himself as Ikael Jelaar. He stumbles a bit on the name and Thancred wonders how new it is. Thancred winks, and Ikael blushes, stutters _._ Thancred smiles to himself. _Heh._

~*~

Ikael more or less hides behind Thancred when he is introduced to the Scions. Minfilia draws him out with a kind smile and a tinkling laugh.

Thancred thinks Ikael is scared of Y’shtola. The thought is amusing.

Ikael brightens when they get assigned together, and Thancred makes sure to compliment him with his most charming smile. He gets another blush.

~*~

Ifrit reaches Ikael before Thancred does.

Then Thancred is possessed by an Ascian.

~*~

He is recovering, and they are calling Ikael the Warrior of Light. Ikael is accepting the praise with a dazed, nervous grin, and always seems surprised when he gets flooded by his fans. Thancred would think Ikael ingenuine, but then someone says “Warrior of Light” one time among many, and he notices the smallest of flinches.

Thancred wonders if Ikael feels like it is too much for him to handle. He wonders if Ikael will collapse under his new title.

He does not.

~*~

Thancred is dwelling on everything he has ever done wrong—the tally is high. The Waking Sands is near empty, save for Urianger, and Thancred knows he will not disturb him.

Ikael walks past him, then stops and turns around. Half of his outfit is an unfortunate yellow— _really_ not his colour—and the other half looks like it has been taken from Rowena’s newest display stands.

“Hey!” Ikael says to him with a friendly smile.

Thancred wonders what would make that smile pop. He says, “Hay is for cattle.”

Ikael grins at him, all squinty-eyed. Thancred is genuinely curious if he has simply forgotten everything that’s happened because of Thancred in the last year, or if he really is too straggle-minded to bother to string it along with him.

Ikael thrusts a tray at him. “Do you want a lemon tart?” he offers.

Thancred looks down. The tarts are ununiform and a bit squished. “Did Tataru make these?” he asks, even as he thinks that Tataru would never let anything out of the oven if it were less than perfect.

“Actually, I did,” Ikael replies, non-surprisingly. “I’ve, uh… been trying my hand at cooking recently. Y’shtola said she liked these last time, so I made some more for her. But… ha… this is probably too much.”

Thancred has seen Y’shtola consume nearly an entire bakery. He takes a tart.

It is… good. _Very_ good. How much has Ikael learned in Thancred's absence?

Thancred offers Ikael a smile, and the one he gets in return is… fond.

~*~

Thancred is sitting on the roof of the Waking Sands with a bottle of Vesper Bay’s finest. The stars are hazy, and beautiful, and as silent as he feels. They are judging him.

Thancred hears someone approach him from behind. He is about to grumble at them to go away, but then Ikael plops himself down next to him without asking if he can sit.

“Here,” Ikael says. “You liked the tart, so I made… a bigger one?”

Ikael is holding… a pie. An entire pie.

Thancred is drunk. He stares, nonplussed.

“It’s lemon,” Ikael says, waving it around a little. “It might help with your hangover in the morning.”

Thancred makes a gruff noise. Then he is suddenly angry. The blush has faded from Ikael’s cheeks, so why is he doing this? Why isn’t he leaving Thancred to rot like he deserves?

The pie tastes good. Of course it does.

~*~

“I don’t blame you,” Ikael says into the night. Thancred pretends as if he doesn’t hear.

~*~

They move to the Rising Stones. Ikael complains about the cold, and Thancred suggests he gets an extra attachment sewn into his clothing for his tail. Ikael huffs at him, then loudly and playfully moans about how clumsy hyur are, and that it’s a miracle Thancred manages to hit _anything_ , really.

The banter lifts Thancred's heart for a sweet minute.

~*~

The last girl is crying, sniffling into Ikael’s chest as he murmurs words of comfort to her. He gives her a sugary treat—like he had with the others—and a kiss on the forehead, then sends her on her way.

Thancred catches his gaze by accident. Ikael glares at him, and walks off.

He doesn’t say more than a few sentences to Thancred for the rest of the week.

~*~

They are summoned to a banquet. Ikael pesters Thancred about his knowledge of dances, his earrings, his choice of outfit. Thancred advises against the colour yellow.

Nanamo’s drink spills.

The Scions are scattered.

~*~

Thancred can feel his mind harden the same way he can feel his nails and hair get long and unkept. He meets a nutkin.

The Warrior of Darkness nearly kills a miqo’te with steely eyes and _ridiculous_ clothing. Thancred throws his dagger, and Ikael’s gaze softens so much he seems like an entirely different person.

When they get on the airship, Thancred readies himself for a story. He doesn’t expect to be immediately tackled with a hug so tight he feels as if his lungs are going to burst.

“I missed you,” Ikael breathes, holding him for a long, long moment. Then he says, “You smell different.”

Thancred—Thancred _laughs_ , small and startled.

He’s missed them too.

~*~

The Ishgardians are relying on Ikael for… a lot. Thancred looks at Ser Aymeric’s handsome features and then looks at Ikael. He mentions a few things out loud that, judging by the tilt of Ikael’s smirk, no one has brought up before. He relaxes.

He asks Alphinaud about Lord Haurchefant Greystone. Alphinaud makes sure Ikael is not in earshot before he tells him. They weren’t involved, but… Thancred knows the pain of losing someone who matters to you that much.

Ikael wins Ishgard the grand melee. Then he saves a doomed man possessed by an ancient being. He is starting to make a habit of that.

~*~

They say their final goodbye to Minfilia, and nearly all Thancred can feel is grief. He can smile for her, but…

Ikael comes up to him after, and says quietly, “She is lucky she has someone who loves her as much as you do.”

Thancred doesn’t give much thought to his words, and soon forgets them, leaving them in the rut of meaningless sympathy that glances off his skin. They have more important things to focus on than his feelings.

~*~

Thancred gets a fever. Ikael won’t leave him alone throughout, of course. Lyse—finally Lyse—starts babbling about the clothes Tataru has made her, and then Tataru joins in, babbling back, and then Ikael brings them food because they must be hungry, right? Alphinaud paces, Alisaie sighs at him, Urianger moons over the wind-up toy he has made of Moenbryda.

They are all passing time doing nothing, of course. Perhaps it is so they don’t feel itchy with the wait for news, _any_ news.

Then M’naago bursts in.

~*~

Alisaie tells them that Ikael, Lyse, Alphinaud, Tataru, and herself are all off to the Far East for some reason. Thancred wishes them a confused good luck. Urianger remembers something at the last minute and sprints for Limsa Lominsa.

Ikael calls him by linkpearl an hour later to anxiously check whether he has left his personal oven lit. Thancred chuckles and tells him no, then quickly puts it out before it can set fire to the whole room.

~*~

They come back, lay siege, and free a country. Well, _Ikael_ frees a country. It is his name that is on their armies’ lips, after all. For every “Ala Mhigo!” there is one “Ikael Jelaar!” Thancred grins when he tells Ikael this.

Apparently Ikael cannot hear Minfilia’s name anymore. Thancred feels sympathy when he carefully carries Ikael to a tent and lays him down. He tells the chirurgeons that Ikael has an upset stomach and to make sure he eats something when he is feeling better.

~*~

Something has happened.

Thancred does not know what; all he knows is that he and Ikael are out in the Shroud for a mission, and he has been woken up by a strange sound.

Ikael has been keeping watch, and he would not let danger near without alerting Thancred first. So Thancred looks.

Ikael’s back is to him. His arms must be hugging his knees because Thancred cannot see them. His head is lowered, his tail is curled around himself, and his ears are angled so low they are hard to discern from his hair.

He is crying.

Rather, he is letting out deep, heart-wrenching sobs that seem to tear their way out of his throat. He is trying to keep quiet for Thancred's sake, Thancred can tell, but he is shaking, his shoulders are heaving, his weeping is raw. It is futile.

“Ikael,” Thancred calls out in a low voice.

Ikael unfolds, clutches a handful of grass, turns around. He is shaking too much—he is crying too hard to apologize for making noise. He simply looks at Thancred, his face wet, his eyes like crystals. His breathing is jagged and desperate.

Thancred goes over to him. He kneels down, and… Ikael is looking at him—so strangely. Thancred wonders if this is the man behind the pies, the generosity, the softness.

There is nothing soft about Ikael right now. Thancred does not know what has caused him such distress, but whatever it is is his own battle to fight; Thancred cannot do much. Even so… he can do _something_. He extends an arm, holds it out to the side a little.

Ikael doesn’t move, still looking oh-so-strange. Thancred stretches out his other arm, and says, “It’s there if you need it, my friend.”

He doesn’t see hesitation in Ikael’s eyes, because he does not know how to read him right now. But at first Ikael does nothing, and then he is scrambling forward, nearly grappling onto Thancred. He collapses into him, and then he is sobbing, harshly, without pause. Thancred does his best to hold Ikael tightly and soothe him, but he can barely be heard over Ikael’s noises.

Eventually, Ikael calms down, his crying turning into soft hiccups. Thancred pats him on the back, intending to keep comforting him for as long as he needs, but Ikael—withdraws. And for the first time in a long time, Thancred can feel the distance between them.

“What is it?” Thancred asks. His verbal footing is unsecure.

Ikael looks at him quietly with a stranger’s eyes. He says, “Nothing that concerns you, Thancred.”

The words hit harder than Thancred is willing to admit. “Whom does it concern, then?” he asks.

Ikael’s gaze is still distant, but it is heavy with an old, intimate awareness. “… No one,” he whispers.

The words are fragile, on the cusp of loneliness. They shatter like stars between them, and fall to the ground as diamond dust.

Ikael clears his throat, and says, “Thank you. I am sorry for ruining your shirt.” His words are false; not in their meaning, but in who delivers them. But his voice is still sore, still unchanged.

Thancred remembers what Ikael had said so long ago, then. About Minfilia.

No—not Minfilia. Not really.

Thancred says, “You are my friend, Ikael.”

Ikael smiles. His eyes are sad, as if Thancred's words draw up the barrier Thancred has never noticed between them once more.

So Thancred says, “I love you.”

The barrier is shattered, for a shocked instant. Ikael says “What?” Fragile. Sharp.

Thancred repeats, “I—”

“No.” Ikael laughs. It is not a happy laugh. “You do not,” he says. “You love what I can do for you. Who I can be.”

Ikael does not believe him. Nor will he, Thancred knows, no matter how many times he repeats the words. Repetition will do naught for a soul whose mark it does not hit.

Thancred wonders if Ikael knows what love is.

“I’ll prove it to you,” Thancred says.

And he does.

~*~

Ikael comes to him with black armour, with guilt, with a stone living and breathing dark aether. Thancred helps. When Ikael’s tears dry Thancred tucks him into his own bed, brushes his forehead with his knuckles.

Ikael catches a cold. The sight of him curled up on his bed and smothered in blankets is an endearing one. Thancred does not sit by him when he is awake, but when Ikael is asleep he keeps the glass of water by his bedside full, untangles his bedsheets, sings to him softly even after his eyes close. He makes sure Ikael eats the soup Alys warms for him.

Krile mentions Minfilia once, and Thancred smoothly interrupts, changing the topic and pretending to ignore the annoyed roll of her eyes. Ikael looks at him gratefully.

Ikael is tugging at his Shisui gear, trying to pull the fabric up over his skin, and Thancred says, “It would not do to deprive the world of such a view, my friend,” and winks. It startles a laugh out of Ikael, and he stops. Thancred leaves him his jacket just in case.

He asks Ikael questions. Ikael answers them. He makes jokes. Ikael giggles and jokes back. He takes steps in a new direction, and Ikael is right there next to him, offering his hand.

Ikael starts looking at him differently, more… openly, and Thancred never would have noticed if he had not tried to. The love has always, unconditionally, been in Ikael. But now, the trust starts to appear in his gaze as well.

Thancred smiles. Ikael smiles back.

~*~

“… and it will _continue_ to be that way, because you are an idiot.”

Ikael looks hurt. His mouth opens a little and he says nothing back. Thancred squashes down (and tramples on) the sudden need to apologize, and sighs.

“Now you say something mean back,” he urges.

Ikael looks as if the very idea is abominable to him. “I don’t want to be mean to you!” he says.

“It doesn’t have to be _sincere_ ,” Thancred groans. “Come on, Ikael—think of it as striking and blocking, but with words.”

Ikael looks confused.

Thancred tries, “You’re good at hitting things, right?”

Ikael nods rapidly.

“It shows, because your head is dense enough to break stone.”

Ikael… looks even _more_ hurt.

Thancred sighs again, then strides forward. “I’m sorry; I didn’t mean it, you big baby,” he mutters, giving Ikael a hug.

Ikael pushes him away and sniffles. Thancred stares, slightly aghast, as he starts full-on crying.

“I-I _am_ sorry, truly I didn’t—” he starts.

“I thought y-you were my f-friend,” Ikael whimpers, and guilt hits Thancred like a brick. “All y-you do is m-make fun of m-me and… h-hit me and… I c-care about you so m-much and I make you _p-pie_ and all your favourite f-foods and you…”

“I’m sorry, I’m sorry!” Thancred is beginning to panic. “Please stop crying—I hate it when you cry. Here, just,” He tries to offer a hug again but Ikael wails and turns away.

Thancred is scrambling, trying to remedy the situation, and he thinks… and _keeps thinking_ …. Wait. “I don’t hit you that often,” he mutters, “That I remember. Actually, it’s usually you who does the hitting.”

Ikael looks up with wide eyes brimming with tears, and Thancred is about to apologize again for his misstep before Ikael grins suddenly and cuffs him upside the head.

“Idiot,” Ikael says. “I’m not _that_ much of a crybaby, gods.”

Thancred gapes at him. Ikael’s grin grows.

“… You little shite,” Thancred says, somewhat in awe. He starts to grin as well.

Ikael winks. “Gets me far,” he says.

Thancred thinks. How many times had Ikael… “You _clever_ little shite,” he repeats, grin widening as he shakes his head. Ikael starts to laugh. After a few seconds, Thancred joins in.

Ikael never says “I love you,” out loud. It is odd, for someone so sentimental, but at the same time it makes sense. For _Ikael_ , the man who is no longer a stranger, it makes sense. But he doesn’t need to say it, because Thancred knows anyways.

They both do.

~*~


End file.

**Author's Note:**

> just fluff. maybe filler fluff, but hey who cares. read if having a bad day

Thancred didn’t quite know where Ikael was. That wasn’t unusual, really, and more or less nothing to be worried about. Aside from that one time he had rather unfortunately gotten himself kidnapped and tortured, Ikael was apt at wriggling out of whatever trouble he had placed himself in.

That being said, his polished, shiny, brand new Garlond Ironworks stovetop was currently… _malfunctioning_ , and Thancred found himself somewhat desperately wishing for Ikael’s presence. Somewhat, that was, because perhaps it was… a bit his fault.

“Too many swivving knobs,” Thancred hissed, fanning the stovetop frantically. It cheerfully hissed back at him at a much louder volume, and started sputtering out thicker smoke. Thancred coughed.

Twelve—Water. He needed _water_. He dropped the towel and staggered towards the sink, desperately looking around for a cup or a glass. Ikael had to drink from something, right?

The sink and its surrounding area were annoyingly, uncharacteristically clean and tidy. Trust Ikael to take better care of his workstation than he did of his own hands—honestly, Thancred wouldn’t be surprised to find blood spattered randomly across the other half of the room. He opened a cupboard: nothing but a few sealed jars. He opened another one, nearly slamming his fingers against its door in his haste—and this one was filled with strange tin molds. Where did people normally keep their glasses? No—where did _Ikael_ keep his glasses?

 _Just get a bucket, idiot_ , said a voice in his head that sounded very much like Y’shtola. Behind Thancred, the stovetop made a strange sizzling noise, and promptly burst into flame.

“No! No.” Thancred grabbed one of the tin containers and slammed it down over the fire. He felt a searing flash of pain, but the flames abated for a second, swallowed by the lid… and then started to lick up over the edges. Thancred cursed.

He tried to lift the tin off, but it was so _hot_ —he let go of it hastily, muttering expletives, fluttering his hands by his sides. Ikael was going to _kill him_ —

A hand yanked Thancred back by his collar, and he yelped. Then he was shoved ungracefully to the side as Ikael reached for a strange metal tube hanging on the wall and pulled its trigger. Green gunk spewed from the tube onto the fire, and Thancred watched as the flames were quickly smothered into non-existence.

Ikael muttered something, then reached down and turned the knobs in the opposite direction Thancred had. _Oh_. Ikael coughed, once then twice then thrice, and quickly pulled his scarf up over his mouth. Then he slowly spun around, arms crossed.

Thancred winced. Ikael was frighteningly good at giving death glares for someone who was usually so cheerful. Thancred had perhaps been hoping that Ikael would let him off easy and laugh at his incompetence, but—there were dirt stains on Ikael’s clothing, some blood on his nose, a bruise on his forehead—he looked haggard, tired, and not at _all_ entertained.

“ _Explain_ ,” he said.

“Ah…” said Thancred. Ikael’s eyes fell to his hands, and before Thancred knew what was happening they were under the sink, cold water pulsing down and soothing the blistered skin.

“Idiot,” Ikael muttered. Thancred mentally injected a little fondness into his tone.

Uncomfortable silence reigned for a minute, and then Ikael sighed and went fishing in one of the far cupboards that Thancred hadn’t looked through. He pulled out a can of ointment and a roll of bandages.

“Sit,” he ordered, gesturing to a chair by his bed with the can, and Thancred obeyed silently.

“Hands out,” Ikael said next. He sat on the corner of his bed, tugging his scarf down.

“Yes, _Ser_ ,” Thancred returned cheekily, kicking his legs a little; Ikael couldn’t be _too_ angry at him, right?

Ikael sent him another death glare. Thancred coughed and stuck his hands out, feeling very much like a guilty schoolboy.

“Now,” Ikael said, opening the can and beginning to apply the ointment, “I have had… a very rough day. A _very_. Rough. Day. That being said, that is not your fault, and I will not take it out on you. _That_ being said, there is something that obviously _is_ your fault, so tell me: what happened with my stove?”

“… Well,” Thancred began. He felt unusually nervous. Ikael’s voice was calm, and his gaze was… very focused on what he was doing—it was unsettling. “I, uh… remembered you telling me I could use your oven if I ever needed it…”

“The _oven_. Yes, I did.”

“Ah…” Ikael _still_ wasn’t looking at him. Thancred started to fidget. “And… there were these knobs, you see, that I didn’t remember being there, and the whole top part was new and looked very Cid-inspired, so…”

“So you decided to leave it alone and just use the oven below it, or go to, gods forbid, our _kitchens_ and use the ones there?”

“Well,” said Thancred, looking down at his lap.

“Hm.”

Ikael finished with the ointment, then considered the bandages. “I don’t think you need these, thankfully,” he said. “But in case you want them, I’ll leave them out. Just… _ask_ someone to help you and don’t do it by yourself, alright? I know you can be ridiculous about that, but do try to be reasonable this time.”

Thancred nodded. “Of course,” he said. Then he added, “I _could_ have applied the ointment by myself, you know—I am not a child,” and shot Ikael a small grin.

Ikael didn’t grin back. “You just burned yourself on a stove,” he said flatly, then got up and headed back to the appliance itself, pulling his scarf up once more. Thancred's tentative smile faded.

“I—am sorry,” he said to Ikael’s back. “I do not think I have actually said that yet—terribly rude of me, to be honest.”

“Mmhm,” said Ikael. He bent down to inspect the stovetop at a better angle.

“Really,” Thancred continued, “I should be happy to pay whatever fees you require to have it repaired.”

“Not necessary,” Ikael said shortly. “It was an accident. It’s fine.” He gingerly lifted the tin container with the tips of his weapon’s claws.

“I insist,” Thancred pressed, watching as Ikael straightened up and calmly set about closing the cupboards Thancred had left open. Thancred winced when he readjusted the door of the jar cupboard.

Ikael sighed. “If the Scions truly did intend to pay me for all collateral damage caused by their activities, you would owe me a fortune,” he said, finally turning around. “I can handle it.”

“I… Just for the stove,” Thancred replied, a bit lost. “It is yours; I would give out of my own pocket, not the Scions’ coffers.”

Ikael closed his eyes briefly. “Fine,” he said. He closed the last cupboard without looking at it. “You may pay me back when your hands get better. What were you trying to make, anyhow? I don’t see any ingredients.”

“The recipe called for an already-warmed oven,” Thancred answered. “I was attempting to bake a… snack.”

“Great. Well, next time, you can wait for me to come back,” Ikael intoned, “Or ask someone else.” He crossed his arms, looking at Thancred evenly.

Thancred knew a dismissal when he heard one. He rose and headed for the door.

“One more thing,” he added, remembering something and glanced back at Ikael, “Whatever is that oddly-shaped container for? The one that I, ah… misused. Which I will also be happy to replace, of course.”

“It’s a pie crust mold,” Ikael said.

 _Well_. That was ironic. “Oh,” said Thancred.

Ikael kept looking at him with that same foreign, unsmiling expression. Thancred bowed his head as a quick, additional apology, and ducked out of the room.

~*~

Ikael sighed, closing his eyes and sinking onto his bed. He regretted being somewhat short to Thancred, but… it had been a long, _long_ day. He’d apologize later.

Smoke drifted to his nose and he coughed. _Damn_. It would linger for at least a few hours, at this rate. He wouldn’t be able to eat in here, not with the smoke—well. He wouldn’t be able to eat in here regardless.

He coughed again, and frowned, getting up. He might not even be able to _sleep_ in his room, actually. Keeping his scarf pressed to his mouth, he quickly left his living space, catching himself on the doorframe when a muscle twinged unhappily at him. The windows were already open, but he’d have to leave the door ajar as well to air the room out faster.

“Ikael?” Y’shtola’s voice called out to him, and he glanced to his left. She was leaning out of her own room, holding a scroll in one hand. Perhaps she’d been studying?

She sniffed and made a face. “Whatever is that ghastly smell?” she asked, ears flattening in distaste.

Ikael huffed. “Thancred set my stove on fire,” he said. “Not on purpose, of course, but I’m sleeping in the library tonight.”

She sighed. “Idiot,” she muttered semi-fondly, then beckoned to Ikael. He trotted forward, frowning.

“You may use my quarters to clean up, if you wish,” Y’shtola said. “I’ll see what I can do about the smoke.”

Ikael started to shake his head. “I do not wish to disturb you—” he began, but she held up her hand.

“’Tis the least I can do,” she said firmly. “You seem drained and weary, and you need a bath.”

“Thanks,” Ikael said flatly.

“And wash that bad attitude out while you’re at it,” Y’shtola ordered, pushing past him. “It is unflattering. And not like you.”

Ikael grunted, watching the flick of her tail as she walked away.

~*~

“‘It’s not like you, Ikael,’” Ikael muttered as he unlaced his boots. “‘Why can’t you be cheerful, Ikael? Listen to all my problems, Ikael.’” The laces stuck on a knot. He growled and tugged harder.

“Godsdamned typical,” Ikael muttered. He yanked once more out of spite before digging in with his nails.

Five annoying minutes later, he was sinking into clean, soapy bathwater. He let out a long sigh.

“And _I’m_ the whiny one,” he muttered to no one in particular, kicking a little with his foot. Water splashed out of the tub. “ _I’m_ the sensitive one. I’m the _clingy_ one. Gah. I’m not clingy!”

He kicked at the water again. More of it splashed onto the ground. He’d have to clean that up.

Ten minutes later, Ikael hadn’t moved.

“I’m not clingy, am I?” he said petulantly.

“Uh,” said Alphinaud.

Ikael rolled his head around to look at him.

“What,” he said, “in the _hells_ are you doing in here?”

“You’re not Y’shtola,” said Alphinaud.

“Of course I’m not Y’shtola!” Ikael slapped his bathwater a little for emphasis, feeling frustrated and a little embarrassed, because he was naked and he was also definitely whining, and he didn’t like being caught in his hypocrisy. Alphinaud followed the splash of water with his gaze.

“Well, I—"

“Wait.” Ikael frowned. “Why are you looking for Y’shtola in _here_? Why do you want to watch her—”

“I _don’t!”_ Alphinaud held up his hands, ears going red. “I do _not!_ I simply wanted to ask to borrow a book!”

“So you went looking in her _bathing_ room?”

“I heard someone talking!” Alphinaud exclaimed. “I didn’t know it was her bathing room! I’ve never been in here!”

“ _Ughh_ ,” Ikael groaned. “Alphinaud, I’m _naked_.”

“I know! I’m sorry!” He started to back away.

“Wait!” Ikael called, sitting up, and Alphinaud froze.

“Uh…” Ikael didn’t know how to phrase his question. He asked simply, “… Do you think I’m clingy?”

Alphinaud frowned. “Er,” he said, “It… is not quite the word I would use to describe you. I do not know… don’t you usually have these sorts of conversations with Thancred?”

Ikael sighed. “You may leave,” he said, leaning back and shutting his eyes.

“Hm. Heroic, perhaps,” Alphinaud offered, sounding thoughtful. “Approachable? Amicable. Effervescent, even. Definitely friendly, although that’s somewhat of a dull word. Always an ear to—”

“ _Get out._ ”

Alphinaud squeaked and fled the room. Ikael only felt a little bit bad.

~*~

“And what are _you_ doing? Moping?”

Thancred glanced up. Y’shtola was staring down at him, hands on her hips. He shifted nervously, drawing his legs up and clutching his wine bottle.

“No,” he muttered unhappily.

Y’shtola let out a long-suffering sigh. “Gods, you and Ikael are simply spending the entire day whining to other people and feeling sorry for yourselves, aren’t you? The two of you are quite the pair.”

Ikael was moping too? “Is Ikael upset?” Thancred asked, peering at Y’shtola.

She raised an eyebrow. “Why don’t you ask him?” she said.

Thancred ducked his chin into his knees and took a small swig of wine. “He is angry with me,” he mumbled.

“ _Children_ ,” Y’shtola muttered. Then she frowned, bringing a hand to her ear.

“What?” she said. “Clingy? Yes, you are.”

Behind her, a fly buzzed around a crate. Thancred watched it as it landed.

Y’shtola paused, then said, “Chin up, Ikael. It’s not necessarily a bad thing.”

“He’s not clingy,” Thancred said into his knees, a little defensive. The fly flew away, and he lost sight of it.

“Then tell him that,” Y’shtola said, toeing at him. Her tone softened. “And put that bottle away; you shall find no answers at the bottom of it.”

~*~

Y’shtola had done an excellent job of airing out Ikael’s room. It now smelled clean, and slightly of moss. Ikael made a mental note to thank her for everything later; it really was quite kind of her to help him out like she had. He’d bake her a cake; she’d been oddly enthusiastic the last time he had made one.

Ikael had called Wedge to enquire about replacing the stovetop, and they had agreed on a date and price. It was unfortunate that such a new piece of equipment had gotten damaged so quickly, but… better to find out before he actually needed to cook something on it.

Someone knocked on his door. The sound was tentative, quiet; without the sensitivity of his ears and the silence of the room and open windows, Ikael wouldn’t have picked it up.

He opened the door. Thancred stood there, looking down, a bottle clutched in one hand. His hair was falling in front of his face and his shoulders were slumped.

He lifted his gaze to somewhere on Ikael’s chest.

“It’s the anniversary of Warburton’s death,” he said quietly.

A second ticked by.

_Oh._

Ikael pulled him in without a word, and shut and locked the door. Thancred hovered uncertainly, eyes flitting guiltily to the stove before darting around the room.

“I—” he said, and Ikael gently took the bottle from his fingertips, placing it on the counter.

Then he slowly wrapped his arms around Thancred. He felt him breathe in sharply, then let out a shaky exhale.

“I’m sorry,” Ikael said simply.

Thancred was already, expectedly, protesting. “No, you didn’t—”

“I’m _sorry_ ,” Ikael repeated. He gave a little squeeze.

Thancred swallowed, then laid his head down on Ikael’s shoulder. He returned the hug, burrowing into Ikael’s neck.

They stayed like that for an echo of a moment, and then Thancred pulled away. The loss of proximity felt reluctant.

Ikael pushed his hair to the side and waited. Thancred's eyes were sad, but open, and they darted across Ikael’s face.

“Um.” Thancred cleared his throat. “Y’shtola said something about… clinginess?” The corners of his mouth lifted a fraction of a hesitant ilm.

Ikael shook his head. “Just me being whiny,” he said. “We don’t have to move apart; we can stay like this.” He squeezed Thancred's arm. “Do you want a hug?”

Thancred blinked rapidly, then let out a breath of a laugh, eyelashes falling as he glanced down.

“I… am not accustomed to this,” he admitted. “Usually our positions are reversed, are they not? It feels strange being the focus of attention.”

“Usually doesn’t matter,” said Ikael. Thancred looked back at him. His face was solemn, sad, somewhat wistful. His lips parted, but he said nothing.

“You are not used to having this, are you?” Ikael asked. Something in Thancred's expression shifted. Ikael said, “We do not have to say anything. We do not have to use words.”

Thancred said, “No?” His voice was… thin. A layer of snow resting on a crack of ice.

“No,” Ikael confirmed. “We can simply… be.”

A soft breeze wandered in from outside. It weaved around them, playing with their hair, touching their eyes and cheeks and mouths. Leaving.

Thancred said, “I… I’d like that.”

Ikael smiled at him. Thancred smiled back, tentatively.

They lay on the bed, to be silent. Ikael tugged at Thancred's hair tie until it came loose, and hooked his fingers through it.

He broke the silence after a few minutes. “What do you need?” he said.

“I… do not know,” Thancred admitted. “Perhaps… talk? Tell me why you were in such a frightening mood earlier.”

Ikael chuckled. “Was I truly frightening?” he asked, amused.

Thancred gave a falsely dramatic shiver. “You were terrifying,” he replied, the ghost of a smile on his face. “Why, I half thought you were going to kill me and then dance on my grave to the rhythm of your heartbeat, or whatever it is you monks do.”

Ikael laughed. Thancred moved closer to him. Ikael said, “ _Well_. I hope I put the fear of the Twelve into someone today. So the group I ran with…”

He told Thancred about the ridiculousness of the Free Company he had used to be a part of that he’d met up with again, about swallowing at _least_ a dozen spiderwebs inside a dark, dank tunnel, about running after a healer who’d got it into their mind to eat the brunt of the enemies’ attacks. He left out the needless drama, the arguing, the name-calling, the infighting, because that wasn’t important. Because Thancred's form was gradually untensing, and his laughter was starting to become genuine.

“And then she said, ‘Well, I wouldn’t _have_ to constantly stop if you bothered to heal me.’ To me! _Me!_ And I’m just standing there, and Greased Lightning wore out around, oh, ten minutes ago? And I don’t even know what to _say_ to this woman.”

Thancred laughed harder, throwing his head back, and Ikael giggled along with him, leaning into his arm. It was head into nightfall by now, and any sombreness had long since left the room.

“Ah, gods,” Ikael muttered as their breathing calmed. “Hey, you brought wine, right? How much of it is left?”

“Hm… all of it,” said Thancred. “Mostly. I only had a little.”

“ _Perfect_ ,” Ikael said, crawling off the bed. Thancred squeaked in protest.

Ikael hopped to his small kitchenette, opening the drawer he stored his cups in. He picked up two wineglasses, turning around when Thancred made a strange noise.

“What?” Ikael said, grabbing the bottle of wine before jumping back on the bed.

“ _That_ ’s where you keep your glasses?” Thancred said incredulously. “In a _drawer_?”

Ikael tilted his head, confused. “Yes?” He handed Thancred a glass. “Where else am I supposed to put them?”

Thancred reached for the bottle in reply. “Maybe it’ll make sense when I’m drunk,” he muttered, pouring out a healthy amount.

Ikael blew a rolanberry at him, and snatched the bottle back to help himself.

~*~

“An’ I love… _all_ my friends!” Ikael exclaimed, gesturing widely and nearly hitting Thancred in the chin. Thancred nodded sagely, wriggling around. His back was itchy.

Ikael turned his head. “An’ you’re,” he mumbled into Thancred’s ribcage, “You're my favourite.”

“ _Oh_ ,” Thancred said, surprised and touched. “Well… you’re _my_ favourite too.”

“ _Ohhh,”_ said Ikael. He sounded like he was about to cry, which… _wouldn’t_ do.

Thancred shushed him hurriedly, patting the top of his head. His head…

“Your hair is so soft,” Thancred whispered in awe.

Ikael giggled. “Your voice is funny,” he said.

“I’m a comedic genie,” Thancred replied seriously, because it was true.

Ikael giggled _more_. “Genus!” he said, and Thancred giggled too, because he was funny. Wow. They were both so _hilarious_. They should start a… a comedy. For touring.

“We should comedy, for touring,” Thancred suggested, and Ikael giggled louder. Thancred joined him. Again.

“Gods, would the two of you _keep it down_?” someone very rude and angry said, barging into the room. “Some of us are trying to _sleep_.”

“Shh!” Thancred told them.

Ikael gasped. Why?

“It’s Y’shtola,” Ikael said in a hushed voice. “Uh… oh. Uh-oh.”

“What is wrong with the two of you?” demanded Y’shtola. “And my name is _Y’shtola_ , not ‘Yisholie.’”

Thancred laughed. “You’re saying it wrong,” he informed her.

“Gods,” Y’shtola muttered. Then she was suddenly right next to them. “How many… where did all of these bottles come from?” she asked. Thancred winced at the tone of her voice, closing his eyes and smelling Ikael’s hair for comfort. It smelled… furry. He sneezed.

“I had ‘em,” said Ikael. “Hehe… I keep ‘em! For me. And friends.”

“Do you,” Y’shtola said in a not nice voice.

“I’m friends,” Thancred answered. He pulled Ikael closer, and Ikael squiggled against him.

Y’shtola sighed. Then Thancred felt something warm and soft cover him. He tugged, confused, and Ikael yelped. Whoops.

~

“Go to sleep,” Y’shtola muttered fondly, pulling the blanket up over them and stepping back. She sent the lamp burning low in the corner of the room out with a brush of her aether, and bent down to pick up the discarded bottles and glasses on the floor. It was a small miracle they weren’t broken, really.

Her attention was drawn for a moment by Ikael stirring, and she glanced up instinctively. But he was simply shifting around—closer to Thancred, apparently, who muttered, “Yer— _hic—_ warm’n sof’”, before loosening his grip on Ikael’s ear and stumbling ungracefully into unconsciousness. Ikael quickly followed.

Y’shtola made a mental note to leave them a couple of potions in the morning—they’d need them.

Thancred snored, loudly. Y’shtola’s ear twitched at the sound, and she winced.

Well. She’d make _one_ , she decided as she carefully closed the door.

They could fight over it.

~*~

**Author's Note:**

> have some good feelies before... whatever could be next. eheh.
> 
> (shameless plug: want the weenie to give u a hug? [ tumblr ](http://draw-you-coward.tumblr.com/))


End file.

**Author's Note:**

> this is the obligatory backstory fic! featuring not too much plot, but important things nevertheless! some allusions to events of previous story, flowing fast.  
> (mention of emotional abuse, neglect, other warnings in tags)

“No— _at_ the light, Ikael.” Y’shtola sighed, tapping him gently on the cheek. Ikael squinted harshly.

“It’s bright!” he whined, raising a hand as if to bat it away. Thancred, next to him, caught his arm easily and peered at him.

“Pupils are dilated,” he told Y’shtola. They were blown wide, leaving the green of Ikael’s irises barely visible. They would have to wait until his equilibrium righted itself before declaring him fit for duty.

Y’shtola sighed once more, closing her hand around the conjured spark and vanishing it. “It is fairly minor,” she said, “But I would try to see if he can hold a decent conversation at the very least before letting him rest. How did it happen this time?”

“Hm?” said Thancred, acting purposefully obtuse. He reached out to steady Ikael, who wasn’t moving in the slightest. Y’shtola crossed her arms.

“Thancred,” she said, “How did Ikael get a concussion?”

“Ah…” Thancred smiled sheepishly. “Well. You see, Ikael and I were—”

“Thancred hit me in the head,” Ikael said promptly. His speech was slurring, just a bit. Thancred frowned at him.

“… Ikael and I were sparring,” he told Y’shtola as he carefully felt Ikael’s skull. Ikael obediently bent his head down and let himself be prodded at. “I landed an unfortunately strong hit. To be fair, he clocked me in the jaw earlier.”

He didn’t mention that the collision with the wall behind them had been what had caused Ikael’s concussion, not the (somewhat) more meager force of his fist.

“Hm. Unfortunate he didn’t aim higher,” Y’shtola intoned. “Might have knocked your brain to its rightful position. As it is, I shall leave you two be. Thancred, he’s your responsibility until he is aware enough to be left alone.”

Thancred gave a little bow. Someone flicked him on the head.

“Ikael,” Y’shtola said, “I can feel you drifting off. No sleeping until Thancred lets you.”

“’m awake,” Ikael said woozily.

Thancred glanced at him and shook him, quickly. Ikael wrinkled his nose and hit him with his tail.

“No busywork,” Y’shtola called over her shoulder, apparently already fed up with them. “And if Alphinaud comes along, tell him to _wait._ ”

She walked off, and Thancred turned to Ikael, giving him a quick once-over for perhaps the dozenth time in the last half bell. Hm…

“Come on,” Thancred suggested, “Let’s go somewhere and chat for a bit, perhaps? Then we can nap, if you really want to.”

Ikael snorted ungracefully. “Cat nap,” he snickered as Thancred put a hand on his back and gently started to lead him away.

“Yes, you’re hilarious,” Thancred said, glancing around for a good place to sit. It had started to rain outside, so they perhaps shouldn’t leave the building, but… ah, there. A wide, comfortable-looking loveseat resting at the foot of a large window. No doubt they would be able to hear the pitter-patter of raindrops against the glass—Ikael would like the sound. It was nice.

Thancred plopped down in the seat, and pulled Ikael close until he fell in next to him. It was a bit cool by the window, and, well. Ikael had soft hair, and purred sometimes, and Thancred wanted to pet something. He didn’t know where his nutkin was at the moment, but he didn’t need a pet; he had Ikael.

Gods forbid he ever admit that to _anyone_ else.

“Have I told you,” Thancred started, once Ikael’s head was settled against his chest and Thancred had threaded his fingers loosely through his hair, “How Louisoix and I met? Or how I became an Archon?”

“Mmmrrr, no,” mumbled Ikael.

“Well, now it’s an interactive story,” said Thancred. He tapped Ikael’s cheek. “Eyes open, my friend. Now, you know I was born in Limsa…”

He told Ikael about growing up amidst the company of pirates and thieves and other street children, about learning to snatch purses with quick fingers before his hand got swatted, or worse, cut off, about running along the ropes awning Limsa Lominsa, the constant, salty smell of the open sea stretching out for malms in every direction. Every now and again, he would pause and ask Ikael a question, and Ikael would grumble that yes, he was aware of where the Marauder’s guild was, and no, he didn’t know much about the Dutiful Sisters of the Edelweiss, why was Thancred asking?

Thancred told Ikael about meeting Louisoix, how a failed mark had resulted in him being knocked across the cobblestones, and Ikael laughed. For an offensively long time. Thancred grunted at him good-naturedly and kept talking.

“And that is how I ended up in Ul’dah,” he finished with a little flick of his wrist for flair. “The rest, as they say, is rather debonair history.”

“It is nice to know things about you,” Ikael said, blinking slowly at the rain. It had started beating down harshly somewhere in the middle of Thancred's story, but now it had slowed to a soft drizzle. “At least when I know you are not simply making it up. But you’re being honest.”

He tucked his head against Thancred's chest once more and sighed contentedly. His tail flicked upwards lazily, draping itself over his waist.

Thancred _was_ being honest. He wondered how Ikael could tell. They had been spending more time together, as of late—and that was mostly Thancred's doing. Ever since the waterfall… well. Regardless, it was nice to have someone he could simply talk to without worrying overmuch about how he appeared. Additionally, Ikael seemed adamant to always shower him in unconditional affection for some reason, which was, Thancred had to admit, rather sweet. And… in light of recent revelations…

“’Tis your turn now, my friend,” Thancred declared, patting Ikael’s arm. “Tell this bard a story, hm? Perhaps you might even be good at it—not as much as myself, of course, but good enough.”

“Yeah?” Ikael looked up at him. “If you are interested, it is only fair. What do you wish to hear?”

Thancred took a readying breath.

“Tell me how you grew up, if you don’t mind. Maybe I can learn something new about you,” he said, because he didn’t know how else to word, _I don’t have enough details to know how I can reassure you about your crippling fear of abandonment, and it’s all I’ve been able to think of ever since you told me._

“Life in the clan, hm,” Ikael mused absently, seemingly to himself. Then he smiled. “Alright,” he said. “Although I warn you; I am not, unfortunately, you, and thus no storyteller.”

Thancred gave a noncommittal hum, and Ikael began.

“Well, once upon a time there was a little boy. A little kitten. And he cried a lot,” he said.

“Oh?” interjected Thancred, because he couldn’t help himself, “Sounds familiar.”

Ikael laughed.

“Thancred,” he said, “I know why you’re asking me this.”

Thancred's heart skipped a beat, but his voice was steady when he asked, “You do?”

“You’ve been… different, lately. Around me, I mean. And,” Ikael paused uncertainly, “I think it’s a good thing, yeah? But if you… if you want to hear about…”

“You do not have to tell me anything you do not want to, Ikael,” Thancred said softly, even as disappointment seeped into his chest. “You do not owe me an explanation.”

Ikael looked at him. “Do you want to know?” he asked.

Thancred looked back at him. Ikael’s hair had fallen to the side, and Thancred could see that the familiar scar running down his cheek from his eye actually extended higher, bisecting his eyebrow and continuing up his forehead. Thancred wondered how he had gotten it. He wondered if Ikael would tell him about it, if he asked, and if it was easier than telling Thancred—telling _anyone_ —about what Thancred really wanted to know.

“I wish to know,” he said, “Only if you wish to tell me.”

“That’s not what I meant.” Ikael shook his head. “Will telling you make that look on your face go away? The one that’s been showing up every time my ears droop just a bit, ever since the waterfall?”

Thancred's breath caught. Ikael met his gaze knowingly. Thancred closed his eyes. Opened them.

“It… it pains me,” he admitted in a low voice, “Thinking of how you were in that cave. Knowing that I cannot… _help_ you, that I am all but useless when long-term solutions are considered. You are… dear to me, Ikael, more so than I had ever thought you’d be, and to see you… _desperate_ like that, and know that I do not have the right words to say… I cannot…”

“I am sorry,” Ikael said softly, pressing his temple to Thancred's jaw. “I… I should consider things from your point of view, too, I know. I am just… I’m not used to anyone… I’m not…”

“I _know_ ,” Thancred said. “And I… I want to give you space, but…”

“Let me tell you, all right?” Ikael said quietly. “I do not want you to feel useless; you are _not_. And… I can tell it, I think. But… you won’t be… happy. By some points in the story. You might get upset.”

“Understood,” Thancred said, pulling Ikael closer to him and closing his eyes.

And so Ikael told him, at first hesitantly, but getting more confident as he wove his tale for a trusted friend. He told him about how he had grown up as Kael, a small boy of the I clan with bright eyes and a joyous heart. He told Thancred about running in the desert, being fast, being tiny, being a good deal younger than two older brothers who towered above him. About being oh-so-shy and sticking to his mother’s— _Mamae’s—_ side like glue, about how those two older brothers didn’t quite like him, because he was soft, and he cried. And because their mother wouldn’t just coldly shoulder some sense into him, like the nuhn had done to his brothers as they grew up, because she had vowed _not again, not for this one_.

And one day, when he had been happy and smiling and running with two older brothers who _loved him, because he loved them_ , even if they teased him a bit nastily and played with him a bit roughly _,_ them and their friends had taken him to the bottom of a ravine and said _Close your eyes, Kael, and count to_ …

“Ikael. Ikael, it’s alright.” His hands were shaking in Thancred's, and his breathing was getting rapid. Damn—Thancred knew this had been a bad idea—

“I’m with you, alright?” Thancred said firmly. “You’re safe.”

“They—they told me to sit inside a crawlspace,” Ikael continued, voice trembling, head pressed against Thancred's heart. Thancred purposefully slowed his breathing. “To… to _wait_ , because they had a… a surprise, and…”

“You do not have to continue,” Thancred insisted, ready to call the entire story off, but Ikael shook his head.

“I think I need to,” he said.

… Alright, then.

Ikael swallowed. “I opened my eyes when I heard a noise,” he said. “It was the sound of a rock—a boulder—falling down from the clifftop above me. I… I was terrified—I couldn’t move, and then there was another rock, and then another, and… I was trapped. There were some gaps, but they were too small, and I wasn’t strong enough by far to push the rocks away…”

Anger surged in Thancred with molten heat. “How could they do that,” he said in a low voice, “To a _child_? To their _brother_?”

“They hated me,” Ikael said simply. “Father was… not the kindest man, and he never hit them, I think, but… he was… harsh. Mamae never forgave herself, and when I was born, she kept him away from me. She was so strong.” His voice goes soft for a moment. “I hope I see her again someday. Anyways, they… they left me there, for… _gods_ , I... don’t know how long.”

“I am so sorry,” Thancred said tightly, and Ikael smiled, a bit sadly.

“I was convinced that the whole clan had plotted to trap me in there because they had decided to get rid of me,” he continued. “I learned later that that was not the case—but I did not know that then. When Mamae found out, she was _livid_. She freed me and then she _kicked their arses_. Not... not my brothers. Their friends were older, adult tias close to leaving the tribe, but… she would not harm her own children. Their friends got kicked out, and my brothers stayed, because they were teenagers and could not fend for themselves. They, uh… mostly left me alone after that. I think they were scared of Mamae.”

He laughed a bit. Thancred tried to feel calmed by the sound.

“Actually, um… most of the other children also left me alone. I had… one close friendship, but he wasn’t…” Ikael looked at his hands.

“People were scared to interact with me, I think,” he said. “To them, I was a strangely protected child—they did not understand why my mother and I were so close. I became a hunter, and eventually I… I left. I do not think of them as my family—only my mother holds that title, to me.”

“They didn’t,” Ikael paused. Closed his eyes.

“Mamae is the only one that came for me,” he said softly. “She was not the only one who knew. The tribe did not care. I…” He trailed off.

Thancred held him tightly. There was more to the story, he had a feeling, but he didn’t think either of them were prepared to hear it.

“I am sorry,” he said again, because he did not know what else to say. It must have been good enough, anyway, because Ikael smiled at him.

“Thank you for listening,” he said.

“Thank you for telling me,” Thancred replied. “It is brave of you, to relive all of this. And I… I know more, now. If something ever happens.”

“I… I am trying,” Ikael said unnecessarily, because of _course_ he was, “to… know. More. About things.”

He made a frustrated sound, and Thancred shushed him.

“My things, I mean,” Ikael continued with an unhappy pull to his mouth. “I’m trying to not be…”

“I know, Ikael,” Thancred said. “You are trying to get better, yes?”

Ikael nodded.

Thancred pressed a kiss to his forehead. “It is the best we can hope for, at the end of the day,” he said, watching the last of crystalline raindrops hit the ground outside, “To get better.”

~*~

Thancred toed at a small rock on the ground, then kicked it into a nearby puddle. It puttered across the surface, sinking in about half an ilm of water. Thancred watched as the ripples faded, then glanced up at Ikael.

“Yes, Gaill. No, I won’t be able to visit… Just take the ventures from storage.”

Ikael was frowning as he talked, tail swaying gently and hand held to his ear, listening carefully to whatever his (imbecilic) retainer was saying. His ears were twitching every few seconds, as if searching for the source of the voice he was hearing. Thancred smiled, amused. He wondered if that happened every time someone called Ikael by linkpearl.

“No—I left them with _you_ , not Simeon. Just… what?”

Thancred squinted up at the cloudy sky. It probably would not rain again, since the last time had been but a few days ago, but they should hurry, just in case. It would not do to get caught in a downpour.

He beckoned to Ikael, who nodded, and said, “It doesn’t matter, Gaill, I have plenty—no, I don’t care about you robbing me. No. Well, tell him I said you could! Oh, and you can eat some of that extra miq'abob if you get hungry—no, it’s fine. Gaill, it’s _fine._ Okay, I have to go—ok. Yes. Yes.”

Thancred sighed, loudly.

“Okay, Thancred is giving me lip; I really do have to—what? Oh yes, him… Oh? Did he really—?”

“I’m leaving!” Thancred declared, starting to walk off. He heard Ikael utter a rushed goodbye to his retainer, before quick footsteps caught up to him.

“Wait—ah. Sorry about that,” Ikael said, trotting up next to him. “Hey, did you really try to start a fighting pit with small children and then threaten my retainers to keep quiet about their discovery of your illegitimate activities, ‘or else?’”

Thancred stared at him. “Your retainers are idiots,” he said.

Ikael laughed. “Yes, you’ve told me that,” he replied.

Ahead of them, their path stretched out.

They had been sent on a routine patrol route around Mor Dhona, in replacement of a squadron that had all caught a nasty little flu. _You can’t fight if you can’t think clearly_ , Ikael had said to them whilst cheerfully handing them enough soup to feed a small army. _No worries; we’ll take care of it_ , he’d added, and then _Hey, Thancred, get back here._ After a brief scuffle, they had both set out.

There was a briskness to the wind carried over from Coerthas, but it wasn’t too cold. It could almost be called a nice walk, in fact; the route they were taking wasn’t known to be too busy or dangerous. Except… there was something. In the air, a sense of unease that grew the longer they walked. Thancred felt… odd about it. Yet even while keeping a wary eye out, he could see nothing out of the ordinary. They did not even run into any trouble.

As they rounded the end of their route, the feeling intensified. Thancred cast another glance around—the dozenth in the last minute—but could see… nothing. Again.

“We’re getting paid for this, aren’t we?” he asked as the faded blue pulsing of Revenant’s Toll’s aetheryte drifted into view. There was no one about—suspicious, his senses told him. Something was…

“Hm? No,” said Ikael. He hadn’t seemed to notice anything strange, although he had shot Thancred a few concerned glances throughout the evening. “The soldiers need sick leave, and ‘tis not their fault they caught ill! Really, Thancred, you should try being selflessly generous sometimes. See where it leads you.”

“I thought you had decided to only take people’s requests if they gave you something worthwhile in return,” Thancred said. He looked around once more. Damn it—

“I—well. Ahem. Don’t tell anyone that. But they looked so miserable! I had to help. Did you see their—”

“ _Shht_!” Thancred froze, throwing an arm out in front of Ikael to halt his steps. “Did you hear that?” he hissed.

Ikael frowned, going still, and perked his ears up. They swiveled around, checking different directions… Ikael’s tail stopped moving save a slight twitching at the tip as he concentrated…

He shook his head, slowly. Thancred resisted the urge to let out a noise of frustration. He wanted to slip into the shadows more than anything, scout their perimeter, but… He glanced at the shade growing from the tall, tall walls around them. He had a feeling that there was… someone in there. And Ikael would be left alone.

“Wait,” Ikael muttered, and Thancred jerked his head to meet his gaze, senses on high alert. Ikael closed his eyes, frowned harder…

“There’s something,” Ikael said, opening his eyes. “A disturbance of aether. Nothing dark, and nothing powerful—I didn’t notice until I searched for it. But if there’s something around that’s bothering you, it makes sense that you can’t tell what it is.”

Thancred huffed in annoyance. Of course he was useless right now. Well, whatever the aether was, hopefully it wasn’t harmful—Ikael said it wasn’t dark. Odd that Thancred could tell something was off anyhow, almost like there was something else—

“It’s cloaking magic,” Ikael breathed, eyes going wide. “Like ninjas use—Thancred, we’re being—”

 _Followed_.

 _Huh_ , Thancred thought as he felt something ice-cold and scorching pierce his ribs. So that’s why he could tell.

“My rogue senses were tingling,” he mumbled to a horrified-looking Ikael.

“Thancred!” Ikael rushed forward, catching him as he stumbled and clutched at his side. Whatever had stabbed him—enchanted dagger, from the feel of it—hadn’t pierced his lung—Thancred gasped in a breath laced with pain—Twelve, that hurt—

“Fuck—are you okay—gods,” Ikael said, scrabbling at him. He pulled him close to his body for support.

“I just got—unh—stabbed,” Thancred wheezed. “But other than that… yes, I’m… perfectly fine.”

“Right—stupid question, sorry,” Ikael said. He had managed to heft Thancred up so he could take most of his weight; Thancred leaned against him gratefully. They could fight back-to-back, like this, although Thancred feared he wouldn’t be much help.

“Come out,” Ikael called to the shadows around them. His voice was chilling. “Come out _now_ , or I’m going in to find you.”

Nothing happened for a few seconds. Then, gradually, two shapes manifested out of seemingly nowhere. Through hazy vision, Thancred could make out long ears, tails—

“Kael,” one of them began, and Ikael froze against Thancred.

“We didn’t want to hurt your friend,” the unknown—to Thancred—miqo’te continued. “But he was talking too much, and that knife there looks nasty.”

“Neat… trick, with the teleporting,” Thancred commented, gritting his teeth through a pulse of pain.

“He’ll heal,” said the other miqo’te, ignoring him. “The wound is non-fatal.”

“What in the _hells_ are the two of you doing here?” Ikael asked, jaw clenched.  

“What most other common cutpurses do, I imagine,” replied the one who had just spoken up, sauntering forward and holding out—ah. What had stabbed Thancred, presumably. It was a wicked-looking thing, curved and even lightly serrated—a cruel weapon, meant uniquely to main and cause pain. It was successful on that front, Thancred could grant it.

“We didn’t recognize you at first, Kael,” the miqo’te continued. “But since you _are_ our brother, we’ll offer you a discount: give us your money and perhaps that expensive-looking stabber your bodyguard is sporting, and we shall leave you with your lives.”

 _Well_ then.

“Your brothers… really _are_ arses,” Thancred said to Ikael through unsteady breaths. “It makes me… feel less bad about wanting—ugh—to kill them.”

“ _Bodyguard_?” Ikael laughed dryly. “He’s not the one you have to be worried about, Zaj. So I’ll offer you the same deal: get out of here, _now_ , and I won’t kill you where you stand for hurting him.”

“I’m right… here,” Thancred said. “You can… stop ignoring me.”

Zaj—I’zaj? No matter—sneered. His brother— _their brother_? Ugh—stepped up next to him. Ah yes; Thancred could see the similarities now, if he squinted through the haze of pain clouding his vision.

“You couldn’t hurt a fly, little brother,” said the other brother, who was beginning to sound impatient. “Come on; you were never a fighter. Surrender to us what you have, and we shall leave you be.”

“That’s not it, Nhole,” I’zaj interjected. “Look at the way he’s holding on to him—they’re fucking, aren’t they? That’s sweet, Kael, that you could find someone who doesn’t mind how much of a clingy little _girl_ you are.”

“We are not…” Ikael pressed his lips together. He took a steady breath. “Zaj, Nhole, I—you are still my brothers. And… no, I can’t kill you. But I _will_ hurt you, and I am running out of patience with this—this _farce_.”

“So are we,” said I’nhole coldly. “That is it—I have no time for family squabbles. Your time is up, Kael. Zaj, finish his friend off.”

“ _No_ ,” said Ikael, holding out his arms protectively, but it was futile—they could—Thancred felt another sharp stab of pain, higher, this time, and someone _yelled_ —

_Pain, everywhere—I’m sorry, Ikael, I can’t fight like this—_

His vision went

 

Black.

~*~

“No, get him to… _now!_ Now, I swear to _Hydaelyn_ , or I’ll—”

“… with these two?”

“—don’t care. Lock them up. If I don’t get a healer—I… I… _fuck_ , I don’t—”

“Ikael. It’s fine. He’ll be…”

“… not! _I don’t know_ , fuck, I don’t _know_ what I’ll do—”

“… down. You’re not helping anyone.”

“I _can’t_ calm down—he’s—gods… _dying_ and… can’t…”

“He’s stable; he’ll pull through. He’ll pull through. Take a rest.”

“… _rest!_ I’m not _leaving_ him—”

“… Alright, Ikael.”

“I…”

“Alright.”

~*~

Ikael was slumped on a chair at the foot of Thancred's bed. He looked utterly exhausted; his ears were drooping, his hair was unkept and falling in front of his eyes, his mouth was open. Every now and then he would audibly inhale, a small, whispering gasp. His clothes were wrinkled and—not bloodstained, someone had gotten him to change, then—but still looked like they probably needed a wash.

He hadn’t notice Thancred wake up roughly ten minutes ago, which honestly said the most.

Once Thancred was sure that he was not in enough pain to be bothered by any potential jostling hugs—as long as they weren’t _too_ strong—he sighed softly and moved his head. The effect was immediate.

Ikael sprang up, eyes wide, and rushed to kneel by Thancred’s bed. Thancred managed to smile at him hazily—he looked stressed.

“Thancred,” said Ikael, and his voice sounded like a desert that hadn’t had a drop of salvation in decades.

“Hey,” Thancred replied at a reasonable enough volume. He had been kept mostly unconscious, but had been woken up a few times to drink water. To replenish any blood he had lost, most likely.

“Y… you,” Ikael started, and his voice began to shake. “You almost… died, gods, I…”

“Well I didn’t, did I?” Thancred teased with a small grin. Ikael saw it and choked out a poor laugh.

“You can’t do that again,” he said hoarsely. “I… I _told_ you, I said that I could not take it. And I… I mean it. As much as I did back then, and more.”

“Good to know I’m appreciated,” Thancred said, testing a deep breath. His lungs did not rattle—ah, good.

“ _No_ ,” Ikael said fervently, and Thancred frowned lightly at his tone. “I could not _take_ it. Not you, of all people. You’re one of the only people who has ever…”

“Hush, now,” Thancred said softly. Ikael let out a dry sob.

“I shall leave instructions, then,” Thancred continued, smiling at him gently. “‘How to care for your Ikael. One: Hug him at _least_ a dozen times an hour. Two: Make sure he eats his own food, because sometimes he forgets and gets distracted by some random stranger who lost their favourite scarf to a goobbue or some such nonsense—'”

Ikael laughed wetly and swiped at his eyes with his wrist. “You’re such an idiot,” he mumbled.

Thancred chuckled, then sighed softly. “Ikael,” he said quietly, “I am not the only one here who cares about you. The Scions are always there for you, and you can go to any of them—”

“I _know_ ,” Ikael said, cutting him off. “I… well. I’m trying to know, at least. But that doesn’t make it any better for when I eventually lose one of you. Knowing there are more people to love does not mean it hurts any less when one of them leaves.”

Thancred closed his eyes. The curtains in the room were drawn and he did not know what time it was, but the air smelled like dew and cobblestone and… something sweet and baked. Thancred smiled to himself. He wondered if feel-better pie and stress-baking combined to make… some unholy amalgamation of sugar and deliciousness.

“It _will_ hurt,” Ikael said into the quietness of the air between them. Thancred opened his eyes. “It will always hurt, no matter who it is, but… I will not let my heart harden. I will not. They will not have wanted me to.”

He looked… almost distant. Thancred wondered if he was thinking about anyone in particular. Then Ikael glanced at him and smiled, oh so fondly, and Thancred decided it did not matter.

“Speaking of hurt,” Thancred suggested, letting his head fall back, “And I do hate to make this about myself, even if I _did_ get stabbed, but…”

“Easy. Take it easy.” Ikael steadied him, helping him readjust his position on his pillow.

“Do you want me to fetch Y’shtola?” Ikael asked. Thancred winced, then nodded slowly.

“Ah, but Ikael,” he added as Ikael rose. Ikael looked at him questioningly.

Thancred considered for a moment, always hesitant, but… Ikael would not rebuke him. Ikael would not…

“Stay,” Thancred requested softly.

Something strong and tender passed across Ikael’s face. He nodded.

“Always,” he promised.

~*~

**Author's Note:**

> (just in case: the "little girl" comment was a reference to ikael's general behaviour, not the fact that he's intersex. wanted to clarify)


End file.

**Author's Note:**

> Strong warning for sexual harassment. Lesser warnings in tags.  
> Inspiration for this fic came from everyone who has ever harassed a female character in a video game, that one guy who sexted me in an mmo when i was like 12, and that one other guy on the forums complaining that Au Ra weren't manly enough for him.  
> (It kind of got away from me.)  
> (set post-stormblood)

It was a dark and _exceptionally_ clear night.

It had been Lyse’s idea to throw a party to celebrate the new year. _To new beginnings,_ she had said. _To freedom. To my people_.

Of course, someone (Thancred) had immediately pointed out that they had had a celebration not too long ago, to new beginnings, freedom, _and_ her people. _Shut up, Thancred_ , Lyse had said. _I’m leaving you lot and I want to throw a party, okay?_

Ikael had of course sniffled a bit at this, and Lyse had given him a hug and permission to invite whomsoever he wished.

That had been a mistake.

~*~

“A… fete?” Ser Aymeric queried, holding the hastily-written invitation in his hands as if it contained the weight of a nation in its scrawling ink. “Did you not just… ah…” He trailed off. Ikael had started to wring his hands.

Ikael looked up at him. “Please?” he said earnestly, playing up the wideness of his eyes. “It’d mean a lot to me if you’d come. You left so quickly last time I didn’t have a chance to talk to you.”

Aymeric seemed torn. Ishgard was still recovering from the attack launched against the Garlean forces, and she needed her leaders now more than ever. Zenos yae Galvus may have died, but there was always work to do. Yet…

Lucia leaned down to murmur, “I can shift some duties. For _one_ night.”

Aymeric smiled at her.

“I accept,” he said, and Ikael _glowed_.

~*~

Ser Aymeric had not been the mistake.

The beautiful Au Ra with gold on his horns and eyes burning like liquid fire, with coal-black scales and skin the colour of a melted heart,

The man whom Ikael had seen and felt sweet heat spread through him like molten chocolate, who had had him blushing from his chest and shyly stammering out an invitation, who had accepted with a glittering, heart-rending smile—

 _He_ had been the mistake.

~*~

It was a beautiful night. The old Lominsan in Thancred could have gotten lost in the stars, and even now he still remembered the names of most of them. The stars were constant. He had gotten lost in the Lifestream, Y’shtola had lost her sight, _they_ had all lost so much—

And the stars were constant.

So was Ikael’s terrible sense of fashion, apparently.

Thancred found him chatting with Alphinaud. Not surprising—doubtless he wished Ikael to slay him a dragon, or free him a nation, or find him a long-lost buried treasure. Still, Alphinaud appeared to be holding out what looked like a sketching pad, and Ikael was dressed… questionably, and Thancred thought it perhaps best that he intervene.

“I don’t understand,” Alphinaud was saying as Thancred approached, “Why do you want an _unclothed_ portrait of Hien from the waist up? I could put more detail in it if it were just a bust of his face and armour.”

“… No reason,” Ikael said after a significant pause. “Just, ah… how much did you say you wanted for it?”

“Tis free!” Alphinaud protested. “Please, there is no need—”

“You may wish to accept his money,” Thancred interrupted, “For insurance against future, yet to be disclosed damages.”

Alphinaud blinked at him, startled. “Thancred! I did not see you there.” Ikael started to fish for his coin purse, strangely—it wasn’t as if there was a lot of room for him to have put it. “I—no, no, Ikael—” Alphinaud flapped his hands haphazardly.

“Realization comes at a heavy price indeed,” Thancred said as Ikael dropped what seemed like a small fortune onto Alphinaud’s sketch pad.

 “What are you talking about?” Alphinaud said, sounding confused. He looked flustered, and not at all like he was used to the Warrior of Light saying no to him.

Thancred did not wish to have either of those conversations with Alphinaud right now, at this very moment. He turned to Ikael instead, and said, “What are you _wearing?_ ”

“Shisui!” Ikael exclaimed nonsensically, and did a little twirl. The loose fabric around his thighs shifted further downwards.

“Isn’t that a food?” Alphinaud asked.

Ikael flicked him on the forehead. “I think so,” he said over Alphinaud’s resulting cry of pain, “But I’m wearing it anyways.”

Thancred caught a gleam of orange out of the corner of his eye, and said, “My friend, I wish to speak with you in private, if you don’t mind.”

“Of course,” Ikael acquiesced, and Alphinaud wandered off with a sigh, chewing on the end of his pen.

Ikael turned to Thancred. He looked—happy. Smiling. His eyes were bright, and his hair was getting a bit long—and—he was usually confident in his scant mode of dress, but this time there was a certain… timidity to it. It was subtle, barely noticeable, even, but Thancred could see it. And if _he_ could…

Thancred suspected he already knew the answer to his own question. He said anyways, “There is a strange Au Ra here. He has been eyeing you for the past ten minutes. Any idea as to why?”

Ikael’s mouth parted in a surprised “o”. Then he—flushed. Thancred watched him with a raised eyebrow.

“I… invited him,” Ikael said to Thancred's ear. “Uh, well, you know. He seemed, uh… interested.”

“In the party,” Thancred clarified.

“Of course.” Ikael lifted his chin. Then he grinned. “So I couldn’t resist. And, well. You know what they say about long tails.”

Thancred had no idea what they said about long tails, but Ikael was an adult, and could make his own decisions. Still… he couldn’t shake off the odd feeling he had. “Yes,” he said anyways. Ikael shot him a quick, puzzled look.

“Just be mindful, eh?” Thancred said.

Ikael sighed. “Thancred, I don't have time to prostitute myself at every opportunity I get,” he began, evidently deciding that delicate wording was for cowards.

“Okay,” said Thancred, a bit offended. He wasn’t _that_ bad.

“I would _like_ to,” Ikael continued, apparently not talking about him at all, “But I usually simply have too many things to do. _Now I don’t_. And _look_ at him!”

Thancred did. Those eyes gleamed like a furnace. Flickering flames from a nearby campsite glinted off of sharp black horns. Thancred wasn’t one to judge an Au Ra by his scales, but the _intent_ in his gaze looked—dangerous.

Thancred did not want to tell Ikael that his conquest reminded Thancred of Ifrit. “If you truly are for that whole ‘savage and murderous vagabond’ look, then by all means embrace it,” he said instead. “In fact, there is a whole genre of Ishgardian romance novels that I simply must introduce you to.”

“Oh, I know,” Ikael grinned. “Hilda showed me those books a while back. They seemed to remind her of you.”

Thancred stared at him.

Ikael laughed, and Thancred huffed at him and rolled his eyes. “What is your goal tonight?” he muttered, “‘Pick up’ or ‘drive Thancred into an early grave?’”

Ikael’s grin widened. “By the looks of it, you have already gotten halfway to the latter without my help,” he said, eyeing Thancred's hair.

Thancred snorted, and shoved a delighted Ikael to the side. “Leave,” he said. “Seriously; your devilishly handsome companion is beginning to give me the side-eye.”

“Alright, alright,” Ikael chuckled. “Wish me luck!” And with a wink, he sauntered away, tail swinging leisurely behind him.

~*~

Ikael was a fully capable adult. Nevertheless, Thancred kept watch.

He was not the only one. He became aware of Y’shtola standing beside him around the time Ikael stopped at a spread table to get a drink, and knew she was keeping an aetheric eye on Ikael when he paused to nervously readjust his top and she let out a neutral hum.

Thancred glanced over to acknowledge her presence and—

“Is that _cake_?”

It was a single slice on a plate, mostly uneaten. Y'shtola did not like cake. She said, “Ikael gave it to me. Something about ‘recovery.’ But that man over there—tell me something about him puts you off as well.”

Thancred frowned. Away from them, Ikael had started to talk to the stranger. The man grinned, teeth sharp and gleaming, and Ikael actually toed at the ground, blushing.

“When you say ‘puts me off,’” Thancred started slowly—

Y’shtola shook her head, and he felt his shoulders relax a fraction. “He is normal,” she said. “Not possessed, not transformed. He just seems…”

The man grabbed Ikael by the thin tie around his chest and tugged him closer, then smirked and ran a single finger along his jawline, curling it underneath his chin and tipping his head upwards. Thancred could not see much more at this angle, but Ikael’s ears folded down a second later, and he seemed to—shiver.

“Thancred,” said Y’shtola.

The stranger said something, and then Ikael pulled back abruptly. He made a sharp gesture with his hand, cutting the air.

Thancred debated whether he should go over and intervene, because yes Ikael was an adult, but he could be _dense_ sometimes—

The man snarled something and backhanded Ikael across the face.

“ _Thancred_ ,” said Y’shtola.

Thancred had already made his decision. He paused for a brief second to tug at Y’shtola’s plate—

“No. It is mine.”

—before determinedly making his way over, sticking to the long shadows cast by the firelight. In his experience, Ikael tended to solve his problems by first attempting to avoid them, and then roundhouse kicking them in the head when that failed to work. Unfortunately, judging by the submissive line of his shoulders and the plea in his raised hands, he didn’t plan on getting to the second step soon enough.

“Is my coin not accepted in your lands, then?” growled the Au Ra when Thancred was close enough to hear them speak. “I assure you that you are _not_ good-looking enough to find an alternative to me tonight, kitten.”

Thancred felt his eyebrows raise. The way he saw it now, Ikael had only two options: keep trying to talk him down or perform the aforementioned roundhouse kick to the face. A man like that would not take kindly to someone simply walking away.

“Aha, sorry,” said Ikael, choosing the option that Thancred definitely would not have picked, “I didn’t mean to offend. I wasn’t refusing your coin, I simply misund—”

“Then _service_ me, whore,” the man growled, and grabbed Ikael by the arm. Thancred felt his jaw tighten. “You invite me to your strange celebration, acting like a coy harlot, you come to me wearing the clothes of my people on your unscaled flesh, you _seduce_ me, and you dare to refuse me? You will regret that choice.”

Ikael’s face hardened. _Finally_. He wrenched his arm away, bringing it to his side and shifting his left foot back. It was a small movement, and nowhere close to a fighting stance, but Ikael was fast, Thancred knew, and the threat was there.

“I do not owe you anything,” Ikael snapped. “I thought that… I misunderstood your intentions, Kyapitoru, and that is _all_. The way I am dressed has n—”

He faltered, and Thancred swore under his breath. _Nothing to do with you_ , Ikael had undoubtedly been going to say, but… well. It was an unfortunately cluster of events, really, and had… Kyapitoru, apparently, been less of a complete arse, the situation would have been different. Thancred would have even felt glad for his friend—Ikael deserved a reward for… whatever he had just finished doing, in whichever form he chose. So long as that form treated him right.

“You cannot deny your purpose, can you?” Kyapitoru said in a low voice. “It is fine—I shall take you for free, then. Show you why you came to _me_.”

His voice dipped on the last word, slipping into something molten and promising, and—Ikael froze, just for a split second, but long enough for Kyapitoru to reach for—

_No._

—Nothing, as Thancred's dagger whizzed past his hand. Thancred walked up to them with sure steps, locking his gaze with Kyapitoru’s, making sure the threat was clear. The Warrior of Light of all people could defend himself, of course, but—

—Not always.

The _Warrior of Light_ could fight at any time, could slay all of Alphinaud’s dragons, could bring down mountains if he so wished—

—But the _Warrior of Light_ was all but a title, and _Ikael_ was not unbreakable.

“Tis inconvenient how your heroic traits only surface when there are others around, my friend,” Thancred sighed, and stopped just in front of Ikael. “But lucky for you, I am here now.”

“Step aside, mongrel,” Kyapitoru said, narrowing his eyes at Thancred. “The whore and I have business to attend to, and you do ill to interrupt us thus.”

“Terribly sorry,” Thancred drawled, “But _Ikael_ and myself have better things to do than listen to you threaten us all evening. Now leave us,” he smiled, stretching his lips over his teeth, “Or my next dagger shall find your skull.”

Kyapitoru went silent and eyed him for a long second, and for a moment Thancred believed that they really would fight, but then he snarled, “So be it. I hope the warmth of your bed is worth the diseases he carries,” and stalked away.

Ikael breathed out, purposefully long. Thancred glanced at him worriedly, but Ikael simply shook his head.

“You are right. He was not worth a fight,” Ikael said shortly. “He had better stay away from any of the _actual_ , ah…”

“Ladies of the evening,” Thancred suggested.

Ikael shot him an amused glance. “Or men,” he said. Then he sighed. “I’ll… talk to them,” he said. “I thought I saw Edyan around. Some people are best avoided no matter the profession.”

“Edyan?” Thancred asked.

“And his coworkers,” Ikael replied, easily sidestepping. He flashed Thancred a grin which did not reach his eyes. “Save a drink for me?”

Thancred had not learned naught from the past few months. “I am sorry it did not work out, Ikael,” he said. “You deserve someone who is worthy of you.”

Surprise flashed across Ikael’s face, then his features softened, and this time his smile was warm. “Thank you, Thancred,” he said softly.

“Seriously, though,” he said as he turned to leave, “Save a drink for me.”

~*~

“I saw you with that Auri gentlemen earlier,” Alisaie told him, and Ikael squinted at her. Her voice was light, casual, and he wondered how much she had witnessed of the incident with Kyapitoru.

“Oh?” he said, to test the waters.

“Oh,” she replied, and then she—smiled. Teasingly. “Was I just me, or did I detect interest?”

Ah. “No interest,” Ikael said, grinning and shelving his thoughts away for another time. “Not anymore, at least.”

Alisaie raised an eyebrow at him. “I _saw_ you, Ikael.”

He laughed, in truth a bit embarrassed. Had he really been that obvious? “I admit he caught my eye,” he said, “But his personality did not make up for it. A shame, really—I mean, have you seen how… _tall_ Auri men tend to be? And you know what they say about—”

He cut himself off, eyeing her dubiously.

“What am I doing,” he muttered. “You are a _child_.”

“Actually, I’m—” Alisaie frowned, looking conflicted. “Truth be told, I don’t even know what to think of myself as nowadays,” she confessed. “Tis like I cannot decide whether I should be an adult or a teenager. Either way, I shall thank you to keep those thoughts to yourself.” She rolled her eyes, but smiled. “Honestly, Thancred is rubbing off on you.”

“He _wishes_ ,” Ikael said, waggling his eyebrows ridiculously, and she laughed, then immediately pushed him playfully in the arm.

Ikael had decided not to tell her about Kyapitoru, of course.

That had been a mistake.

~*~

Saving a drink for Ikael had been a fine idea. Not keeping an eye on him and his alcohol intake had not.

“You trrried to fuck a table, you know,” Ikael slurred, swaying unsteadily on his feet. “Didn’ work. You’rrre cute, but not… _that_ cute. ‘n the bandana makes y’look old.”

Thancred sighed. “I knew it was simply a matter of time before _you_ eventually told me that,” he said, prying Ikael’s drink from his fingers before he could consume more of it.

Ikael ignored him. “I mean, maybe if ya trrried to look more l’k _him_ ,” he turned dramatically, nearly falling, and pointed towards Ser Aymeric, who could definitely not hear their conversation, and waved, “the table… would wanna fuck you.”

“Thank you, Ikael,” said Thancred.

“Thanred!” Ikael said. “Than….rrrr….ed.”

“I’m quite sure my name only has two syllables,” said Thancred.

“I’ll… _figh’_ you for it!” Ikael cried, apparently interpreting that as a challenge. “Le’s fight.”

“No fighting at a party, Ikael,” said Thancred.

“… No figh’in?” Ikael looked like that very idea was outside the realm of something he could conceive. “Then wha’... am I doin' here?”

“Providing entertainment, mostly,” said Thancred.

“Ikael!” yelled a frantic voice, catching their attention. It was Alisaie, with an arm wrapped around her brother. Alphinaud’s head was bowed, and he was walking fine, but the hand fisted in Alisaie’s jacket was white-knuckled and shaking.

“Wha’ happe’d?” Ikael immediately made his way over to them, and took hold of Alphinaud, cupping his face with a brotherly gentleness. Alphinaud’s nose was bleeding, and there was a red welt across his cheek, but when he looked up his eyes were burning.

“I am fine,” he said abruptly. “Alisaie is the one who—”

“Please, Brother, let him at least look,” she insisted, and the set of her jaw was what made Thancred ease Ikael aside so someone who hadn’t been drowning in their sorrows all night could check on the boy.

“Your nose isn’t broken,” Thancred said after a cursory examination, “And that will leave a bruise, but that is all. Whoever hit you did not do so too hard.”

“ _Hit_ you?” Ikael hissed. “Who? _Tell me_.” Anger made his words sharp, and while he was still slurring somewhat, it was by a surprisingly lesser amount.

“The Au Ra you were talking to earlier,” said Alphinaud, pointing, and Ikael’s entire body went rigid. His balled fists tightened. “He was… _harassing_ Alisaie, and I told him to stop, and—”

“I’ll kill him,” Ikael seethed. “ _I’ll fuckin’ kill him._ ”

“Alphinaud, Alisaie,” said Thancred, “Go find Y’shtola.”

“I do not need a healer!” Alphinaud cried, self-righteous. “I just—”

He still seemed angry, but…

“That _piece of shit_ —I’ll tear his _fucking_ insides out—”

… Ikael was _furious_.

“Go. _Now_ ,” said Thancred, and the twins shot Ikael nervous glances before running off.

Thancred took a breath, and then stepped in front of Ikael, blocking his path. Ikael stared at him, fury boiling in his gaze, and Thancred steeled himself. This would not be easy.

“Ikael. Listen to me,” he said. “Now I know that you’re angry, but you’re also _drunk_ , and—”

“I’m not fucking drunk!” Ikael snapped, taking Thancred aback. He frowned, looking at Ikael critically, taking in his trembling jaw, his flattened ears, his eyes, which were—

Green, clear, steady, and showing no signs of intoxication.

“Monk trick,” Ikael said, and showed Thancred his open palm, which had fresh drops of blood oozing from small half-moon welts, “For toxins. Did you really think I’d let myself get completely sloshed with that swill-sodden arse within ten malms? Turns out you were wrong about the fighting thing.”

“Ikael…” Thancred started, but Ikael didn’t let him continue.

“Now _move_ ,” Ikael growled, “Because I haven’t hit something living in _weeks_ , Thancred, and I don’t want to hurt you.”

“…Be careful,” Thancred finished, and stepped aside.

Ikael grinned at him, all teeth, and slipped into his fighting form as he stalked over to where Kyapitoru was waiting.

~*~

Kyapitoru looked as effortlessly dangerous and inviting as he had before, but this time Ikael was seeing him through red-tinted lenses, and any wandering thoughts he had had, any _desire_ of any sort had completely dissipated, leaving only something that screamed _threat, threat, threat._

It was one thing for him to dismiss Ikael, (and Ikael had indeed gone to Edyan to warn him against accepting Kyapitoru as a client). But for him to go after _Alisaie_? For him to _attack_ Alphinaud?

 _That_ was utterly unacceptable.

“You know, there’s a special place in the seventh hell reserved for your kind of person,” Ikael said, and if his mind was a little darker, if an aether-charged crystal in his pocket burned a little hotter, no one had to know.

Kyapitoru turned his head to look at him, the movement slow and lazy. “You have come back to me, have you?” he said, voice like liquid lead. _Dangerous_. “Decided to give in and accept me, whore?”

“My name is _Ikael_ ,” Ikael hissed. _Dangerous. Relentless. Irredeemable._ “And I have come back to you to tell you to draw your blade.”

_Relentless._

“For what?”

_How dare he._

Kyapitoru raised an eyebrow. “Pray elaborate, dear… _Ikael._ There. Is that it? Be pacified now, kitten.”

“Those twins,” Ikael said, “The ones you just spoke to.” Rage reared up in him, an ugly, red-eyed beast. “ _Draw your blade._ ”

Kyapitoru looked—surprised, artfully so, and did not draw his weapon. “The boy and his sister?” he asked. “Why does that bother you? Are you jealous, kitten? I can assure you, the girl was a treat to look at, but she was not baring as much skin as you; my interest was not as peaked. I admit, it was still a disap—”

 _Irredeemable._ “You had your chance,” Ikael snarled, and—

_Kill him._

—his fists were bloody, his eyes were—red, somehow, Kyapitoru was—

_KILL HIM._

—red, on the ground, blood pouring from nose, choking out of his mouth—

_NOW._

—a horn had broken, an eye had broken, and—

_and_

—a plate came out of nowhere and flew right underneath Ikael’s raised fist. It crashed to the ground and shattered.

“Whoops,” said Y’shtola.

_What._

“You threw… a plate at the Warrior of Light,” someone said faintly.

Ikael still hadn’t moved. He could breathe. He was breathing. In, out. In…

“His life is faint, but it yet remains. Someone see to Ikael—Thancred, Lyse.”

People were touching him, then, dragging him away.

_Let me go._

“Let me _go!_ ” Ikael snarled, straining against the grips that held him back. “ _Let me finish_.”

“We… can’t do that, Ikael.” Lyse. “I’m sorry. He’ll get what’s coming to him, I’ll make sure of it, but… You were going to kill him.”

Y’shtola was kneeling next to Kyapitoru, now, and a few other chirurgeons hurried to her side. The man himself lay unmoving save for the barely noticeable rise and fall of his chest.

_I’m sorry._

“No,” Ikael croaked, still tugging. “No, I’m not—that… that fucking bastard deserved it, he—”

 _Not for that_.

Alphinaud and Alisaie were standing huddled together, and Ikael met their gazes for a fleeting second—

_Oh._

He slumped. Thancred and Lyse, not expecting him to stop struggling, nearly ripped his arms off, but readjusted quickly.

Ikael didn’t look up as Kyapitoru was lead away. He kept his eyes fixed on the ground, not moving even as Alphinaud called his name hesitantly. Eventually, he stopped, and Ikael heard him and Alisaie walk away, their footsteps receding into the dusk.

“Come on,” Thancred said after a long minute. “Let’s get those hands bandaged, hm?”

They released him. Ikael said nothing.

~*~

It was intriguing how such blunt instruments could be used as a weapon, Thancred mused as he carefully wrapped Ikael’s bloody knuckles. He had washed them, applied ointment, and fetched clean bandages easily enough. Ikael himself had simply sat there, completely silent, staring off into nothing.

It was very dramatic. Thancred carefully lifted Ikael’s thumb, trying to pull the cloth taut while still allowing Ikael ease of movement. “You don’t bite your nails, do you?” he asked. “Strange; you struck me as the type.”

Ikael did not respond to his attempt at conversation. He hadn’t the last three times Thancred had tried either.

Still. Thancred hummed, at first just to make a noise, but then a higher note, and then it turned into an Ul’dahn lullaby. Perhaps not the best choice of subject—something about a farmer falling in love with his mother-in-law—but it had a sweet melody.

He finished his work as he finished the song, and held Ikael’s hands together, giving them a quick squeeze. “There. Done well enough that Y’shtola will not rebuke me.”

Ikael’s eyes flickered to his hands, and his fingers twitched. Then—

“You have a nice voice,” uttered quietly, barely audible.

Thancred smiled at him. “Of course I do,” he said. “Comes with the profession, doesn’t it? A voice unfit for wooing does not a good bard make.”

He had welcomed the expected silence, so it surprised him somewhat when Ikael made a strange wheezing noise. Then he—smiled, which was good.

“I… your voice, um…” Ikael went slightly pink, “I, uh, actually had a bit of a crush on you when we first met. Not anymore—gods no—but… did I ever seem…”

His eyelids lowered. Thancred frowned when he caught on to his drift.

“No,” he said. “ _No_ , Ikael, you weren’t—”

“There was the subligar,” Ikael muttered. “And I know I dress a bit…”

Thancred's frown deepened. “The way someone dresses is not indicative of their person,” he said. “You of all people know that. No one has ever thought less of you for your choice of outfit.”

“He did.” Ikael’s voice was dull. “I… it’s happened before. I’ve had people—accuse me, people think I was trying to come on to them when I was just being friendly, people I’ve actually tried to sleep with thinking I was _loose_ —”

“They were wrong,” Thancred said firmly. “Anyone like that is not worth your time.”

“I…” In the quietness of the evening, in the face of no one to cause conflict, Ikael seemed unsure.

“Would you say the same of a woman?” Thancred asked, and Ikael blinked at him, surprised. “Of the dancers who line the streets of Ul’dah, of any girl you have seen wearing less than would be considered ‘proper?’ Would you judge her based on her clothing?”

“No, of course not.” Ikael frowned. “That doesn’t…” Slowly, his brow cleared. “Oh,” he said.

“Oh,” Thancred agreed, echoing Ikael’s favourite word. “It’s that simple, Ikael. Now are we going to talk about the fact that you won’t look Alphinaud or Alisaie in the eye for weeks?”

Ikael narrowed his eyes, but it seemed to be in thought. “… No,” he said eventually.

Thancred leaned back in his chair. “No?”

Ikael gave him a small smile. It was tired, but it was there. “I have calmed down quite a bit,” he said. “And I know I will have to talk with them in due time. But for now…” He sighed.  

Interesting, but Thancred would not push. “Do you… want a hug or something?” he suggested instead, admittedly somewhat lost. “Are you going to cry? Do you want me to cuddle you?”

Ikael let out an amused little puff of air. “You’re starting to sound like me,” he said. “No, I’m not going to cry. And I thought you didn’t like cuddling?”

“I can put aside my façade of pointless masculinity for one day at least,” Thancred said dryly. “You,” he leaned forward and jabbed Ikael in the chest, “Are more important, my friend.”

Ikael smiled. “You say the sweetest things,” he said. “And you know, I think I’ll take you up on the hug. Firstly, though: that was _adorably_ awkward. ‘Are ye goin’ te cry? D’ye—’”

Thancred kicked him under the table. “Don’t start that shite again,” he groused.

Ikael laughed, and Thancred smiled internally, even as he kept his grumpy expression. Some things were worth small sacrifices.

And some things, he knew, as Ikael leaned forward and pecked him on the cheek, were worth bigger ones. One day, that day would come, but…

(Ikael’s eyes were tired, and his hair was falling in front of his face a little, but he was smiling. He looked happy.)

… not today.

~*~

**Author's Note:**

> So! This was a long time coming, and here we are. If any of you have any prompts, need a particular itch that needs scratching, want to know more about ikael, or just wanna chat, shoot me an ask/message on [ tumblr ](http://draw-you-coward.tumblr.com/)! (i know it says art blog but i love you and want to talk i swear)
> 
>  
> 
> (..... also. ahem. I FULLY believe in strong platonic relationships, especially this one.... but i did attempt to write a naughty a while back to experiment so if y'all wanna see it lemme know ok disregard this if ur here for the bromance ill go hide now)


End file.

**Author's Note:**

> There is some description of nausea and vomiting, but it's only a few sentences here and there.

After he speaks with the Word of the Mother, Ikael feels a dead weight settle in his chest. Thancred storms off, and all he wants to do is say, _I’m sorry, I’m so sorry_ , but he can’t. Thancred had said _Whatever it takes_ and he can’t look at him, because, well, he hadn’t done anything, had he?

He doesn’t go and look for Thancred. He wants to.

He can’t. He bows his head and listens to Alphinaud’s naïveté.

It’s his fault.

~*~

He wants to offer Thancred a word of support after he knocks Emmanellain to the ground in an angry blow, but he gets as far as a hand on his shoulder before they are moving on, to the next goal.

His heart bleeds for his friend. He wants to help him. He feels guilty that he can’t.

~*~

Thancred says Minfilia’s name with a tentative smile after the grand melee, and Ikael feels his stomach drop even as he reflexively returns the expression. He wants to check up on Thancred, see to his wounds personally, but he is waved away. More important things, Thancred says. He is needed.

Ikael still worries. He sees Hilda speak to Thancred later, sees her arm brush his. Ikael sends a chirurgeon his way anyways.

He tells them not to tell Thancred that the Warrior of Light sent them. He wants him to accept the help.

~*~

They speak to the Word—to _Minfilia_ again, and the Warrior of Darkness’s words find Ikael’s heart like an arrow. _One life for one world_. He is right. It isn’t too high a cost. It isn’t—

Ikael should be the one in their place. In her place. He is not—he is not that special. They don’t really need him. There are others. He…

It should be him that is leaving. It should be him that is sacrificed, that would be given unto Darkness to restore balance.

The Scions stand by him for a sense of protection. So he will not die. To fight the Ascians.

It is a superficial cause. It should be him.

~*~

They must hate him. They must all hate him. They do not. Things happen, and he is never the focus.

Still, he hasn’t spoken much to Thancred since that first night in Matoya’s cave. He does not dare to. Ikael does not avoid him, but he does not meet his gaze more often than not.

Thancred must hate him. He calls him _friend_ casually and things seem normal, but if Ikael ever looks too deep into those eyes—eye, now—he knows he will see rightfully placed blame.

He does not look.

~*~

Papalymo sacrifices himself. Yda screams and bangs her fists and cries, and then she is Lyse. She does not blame Ikael. Ikael loves them all, dearly. Still, he holds his breath, feels relief when Papalymo’s death lies on him only as heavily as all the other deaths that happen around him, because of him, but there is nothing sharp to connect it this time. He knows he is being selfish, that he cannot run away from guilt, even if he hasn’t directly caused this one. He knows that although he can’t have put himself in Papalymo’s place this time, there will be a dozen more opportunities where he can.

For one night, he tries to forget that.

The next morning, he catches a whiff of Minfilia’s perfume and the familiar weight is settling back in his chest.

~*~

Zenos throws Ikael into the dust and Ikael almost wishes he had killed him. He is too weak… too weak, and they all died.

They go to Doma.

Every time Alphinaud or Alisaie come near danger Ikael’s heart leaps in his chest. He puts himself in front of them when he can. They meet Gosetsu and Hien, and they are all a strong team, and Ikael feels himself almost relax for a moment.

In the Naadam, he feels the soul of every Xaela he kills as it leaves its body. Even the Dotharl.

Gosetsu is holding up the remains of the roof that has collapsed around them. He is struggling to breathe. Pain is lacing through his every word. He cannot last long.

It should be _him_.

~*~

Zenos kills himself.

Alphinaud still does not understand. Ikael hopes, selfishly, that he never will.

Thancred mentions Minfilia by her former name. Ikael is jarred so violently back to that moment that he feels like he might throw up.

Yet, Thancred is smiling, and it’s the most genuine Ikael has seen him since he had said _Whatever it takes._ Ikael is glad that it is because of happiness this time, and not desperation.

Still, the selfish, selfish fear of finally seeing the hatred in Thancred’s gaze comes back, and Ikael is slow in making his rounds. He is finally forced to turn to Thancred after Alphinaud stops yattering about his ridiculous worry that Ikael resents them for any reason.

Thancred tells him that their armies were following Ikael. That he is a natural-born leader. The praise feels hollow.  

He does not want to be a leader. He wants people to stop dying because of him.

It’s his fault.

~*~

It goes like this:

Ikael is sitting on the edge of a wall, overlooking the festivities. He cannot join in—every time someone congratulates him or thanks him their words hit him like stones. He has managed to escape, for now. He is trying not to be noticed.

Someone says, “Getting to be a bit too much?”

He turns and sees Thancred, smiling slightly at him. Ikael makes himself chuckle and say, “Aye, a little, I’ll admit.”

“I’m just glad it’s not all going to your head,” Thancred teases, and seats himself next to Ikael, swinging his legs over the wall. “Do you mind if I join you?” he asks.

Ikael shakes his head.

They sit in silence for a while, listening to the music and the sounds of laughter and cheering drift up to them. At one point, someone sets off fireworks. Ikael feels the corner of his mouth shift upwards as he eyes red sparks exploding in a smoke-filled sky—he is glad that they are enjoying their freedom.

Thancred drums his fingers on the stone. Ikael’s ear shifts to catch the sound. He knows enough now to easily be able to tell when someone wishes to talk to him—it has happened often enough. He wonders what is on Thancred’s mind, hopes that nothing is troubling him.

Thancred says, softly, “I wish Minfilia could be here to see this.”

Ikael’s stomach plummets like a stone. He swallows around the strange feeling in his throat, scrambling in a panic for something to say.

Thankfully, his reputation of silence means Thancred apparently does not expect him to reply. He continues, “She would love it. To see all of these people gain their freedom… and all thanks to you.”

Thancred looks over at Ikael. His smile is warm. “She would be so proud of you,” he says, and everything about him is too mild, too peaceful.

Ikael feels nauseous. He forces his gaze to be steady, takes a readying breath to prepare himself to speak. His fingers tightly grip the stone beneath them, and he says, “I was not alone.”

Thancred glances away to laugh lightly. He seems to be in unusually high spirits. He says, “Now, do not be modest. Between the two of us, you did most of the work.”

He winks. Ikael manages to say, “She would be proud of you too.” How he can manage to grit the words out through his teeth he doesn’t know, but he does. He swallows back his rising nausea.

Thancred goes still, but then gradually relaxes. No, he—melts. “Thank you, Ikael,” he says, and his smile is _still_ too soft. “I don’t know if I deserve it but… I hope I can live up to that standard.”

Ikael tries to focus on stifling whatever sense of inadequacy and insecurity Thancred must be feeling, rather than the turbulence in his stomach. Thinking about it will only make it worse. So he says—

He needs to help Thancred. Thancred can’t feel like this—it’s Ikael’s job to make sure his friends are doing alright. And so—

“Tell me about…” Her name catches in his throat. He says, “Ascilia,” instead, because that feels different enough that his stomach doesn’t roll.

Thancred seems to appreciate this, if anything. His eye crinkles as he smiles, and he looks away, chuckles after a moment.

“You wouldn’t believe how we met,” he says, and he starts to weave Ikael a tale.

Ikael tries to pay attention, and mostly succeeds. Thancred _is_ a bard, after all, and if anything else, they are good for their stories. However, with every passing minute, every fond anecdote, Ikael feels more and more ill. He tries to regulate his breathing, tries to force himself to meditate on his chakras. It always helps to calm him down if he is feeling anxious.

It doesn’t.

Thancred seems to notice he is not listening after a while, perhaps because Ikael’s knuckles are white and his jaw is clenched so hard he feels the pressure in his skull. Thancred says, “Ikael?”

The sound of his name startles Ikael, and he loosens his jaw and immediately forces his throat close as he feels the contents of his stomach stir.

Thancred asks, “Is aught amiss?” but Ikael does not trust himself to form words safely and so cannot answer him. He stares determinedly at a tree in the distance, _willing_ himself to focus. _Calm down. Breathe._

Something touches his arm and he gasps, and that one single intake of air is so, so small yet he feels dizziness start to rise in him, feels the death grip of his knuckles weaken.

Someone says “Are you quite alright? You look ill, my friend. Ah, perhaps you should take rest. Minfilia would always tell me—”

Ikael immediately feels salty saliva flood his mouth and bile rise in his throat. He has a sudden moment of clarity, and he shoves Thancred’s arm to the side before lurching forwards over the wall and vomiting.

He is aware of Thancred making a surprised noise, and then two hands are holding Ikael steady as he heaves, keeping him from toppling over the edge, which he very nearly does. _Wouldn’t that be a heroic way for the Warrior of Light to go_ , he thinks sardonically.

He pauses after a minute, breathing heavily, and Thancred adjusts his grip so he can rub Ikael’s back firmly. “Wait for it to pass,” he says, and so Ikael tries to.

He throws up twice more, but then he feels empty and dizzyingly light, and Thancred helps him as he staggers to his feet. “Sit down,” he orders.

Ikael complies, still feeling dazed, and fists a hand into Thancred's shirt to steady himself before he realizes what he’s doing. He chokes out a scratchy, “sorry”, releasing the fabric.

Thancred settles his arm securely around Ikael’s back, probably so he won’t fall over. “No need to apologize,” he says, and then a waterskin is being offered to Ikael. He blinks at it, nonplussed.

The waterskin waves at him a bit. “Drink,” Thancred tells him, sounding amused.

Ikael takes a few even breaths, and then accepts gratefully, rinsing his mouth before taking a sip. He can feel the liquid slosh into his empty stomach.

He hands the waterskin back to Thancred, thanking him. Thancred nods, and says, “Do you wish to see a chirurgeon?”

Ah. Ikael closes his eyes. He cannot say that he is not actually sick, that—

“No,” he replies, opening his eyes. He looks somewhere in the direction of Thancred's nose; he does not want to be rude. “I… ah… I apologize for that.”

“You are under a lot of stress,” Thancred says. It almost sounds sympathetic—Ikael dismisses that fleeting thought. “Not just now—constantly. As I said, you have no need to apologize.”

Oh gods is he wrong about that. Ikael breathes out shakily, resigning himself. He knows that he has to say it eventually, not for his own sake, but for Thancred's. He… they _all_ deserve an apology, and up till this point Ikael has been to much of a coward to give one. He knows Thancred hates him, but most of the time he can shove that knowledge away and put himself in the false land of superficial taunts and teasing, of the word “friend.”

(He thinks Thancred says his name.) He cannot… he cannot _do_ that anymore, though. Thancred deserves to know of his remorse, deserves to get peace, even if it means that Ikael will drown in guilt and self-loathing every time Thancred looks at him with rancor finally clear and unhidden in his eyes. But Thancred has been so… so happy tonight, and he’s opened up about _Minfilia_ and—

The wave of nausea is so strong Ikael reels forward and dry heaves.

_Oh._

Realization hits him like a blow from a hundred tonze cannon.  

Any doubt that Thancred will not hate him evaporates. Even if he did not before, he _definitely_ will now.

_Oh gods._

“Ikael!” Thancred sounds alarmed. Ikael’s mind feels dull. Thancred is pawing at him, turning his shoulders around to face him. Ikael feels weak, enough that he knows if he tries to stand he will fall to the ground, and so he manages to sit upright. He drags his eyes up to somewhere on Thancred's face.

Thancred's lips press together briefly, and he says, “You need to get some rest. It will not do to have you collapsing from exhaustion on the night of your glorious victory, after all.”

Ikael manages to choke out something of a laugh. He thinks it is a joke, at least, but he must be wrong because Thancred's mouth goes in a flat line. Ikael tries, “Tis not exhaustion, Thancred. I just… ah. I think it is just something I ate. Give me a moment and I will be fine.”

“Mmhm,” Thancred says. “… As you say. Be glad I am not Alphinaud, at least—I do not think he could even be near you vomiting like that without going quite green himself.”

Ikael tries a chuckle. “Sea sickness is not a fault worthy of derision,” he says, “At least, that is what he keeps trying to convince me.”

Then he steels himself. He needs to do this. “Thancred,” he says. “I….” He takes a breath.

Thancred seems to sense the shift in his demeanor. He lets Ikael go so he can see him properly, but he remains close enough to catch him should he sway. Ikael is grateful.

“First of all, thank you,” he begins, after he knows he can get all the necessary words out. “Uh, for dealing with me right now. It can’t be pleasant.” He waves off Thancred's reflexive assurance that it is fine. “No, honestly. But that’s not what… I wanted to… I _need_ to say something. About… all of this.”

Thancred, for once, is silent, waiting for him to continue.

Ikael averts his gaze automatically, then forcibly drags it back up. He cannot run away from this. The eye contact sends a jolt through his system. “Ever since… well, since Ul’dah, honestly. The banquet. There’s been something—I just need to…”

 _Come on_.

Ikael draws in a deep breath. He says—

“I am sorry.”

Thancred tilts his head oddly, and waits, apparently for Ikael to say something more.

He doesn’t. Thancred starts to look confused. “For what?” he asks.

For _what_? “For… for everything,” Ikael says, blinking. “For all of this,” he waves his arm around in a vague gesture. “Everything I’ve done, ev—everything! What do you… everything that I’ve done wrong! You know what I mean.”

“You haven’t done anything wrong, Ikael,” Thancred says, and then frowns when Ikael actually laughs at that.

“What are you talking about?” Ikael says. Then, _Oh._ “You…” He does look down, now. The difficult part is over. “You don’t have to do that,” he mumbles. “It… it is kind, but I don’t deserve it. I’m an adult; I can handle a little anger. I won’t hold it against you, I swear.”

There’s a pause, and when Thancred speaks, he sounds even more puzzled than before. “What in Hydaelyn’s name are you talking about?” he asks. “Why would I be angry with you?”

Guilt rams into Ikael with the force of a tidal wave. Gods, is Thancred making him spell it out? He… okay. That’s fair.

“Because of everything,” he bites out, and that is when his voice starts to shake. “Because of all I have done, everyone I’ve killed—everyone who has _died_ because of me. Because of… of Papalymo, and Gosetsu, and, gods, for _you_ , I’ve—I’ve—she—f-for _her_ ,” he cannot even stammer out the thought of her name without feeling dizzy, “I-I-I, I’m so _sorry_ , I know you—oh gods—I know you _hate_ me and I know it’s all my fault and it should have been me instead of them, instead of all of them and, fuck, I’m sorry I’m so sorry I shouldn’t be here I should be _dead_ and, a-a _million_ times over but I’m not and _I’m_ here instead of _them_ and that’s wrong and I feel _horrible_ and if I could take their place I would, I swear, and I—”

Ikael has to stop to drag in a jittering breath through his lungs, then, and before he can barrel on with his nonsensical apology, a hand that is not his own claps over his mouth. He glances over at Thancred's blurry image before he can help himself, and—

Thancred looks—shocked. Genuinely shocked. He loosens his hand enough for Ikael to be able to breathe through the gaps in his fingers, but each time that Ikael almost manages to get a coherent syllable out he tightens his grip and Ikael stops.

Ikael’s tears are gathering on the skin of Thancred's hand and a few run down, but Thancred himself doesn’t seem to care. He simply stays there, unmoving, and after a while Ikael blinks away enough moisture into his eyelashes so he can see Thancred more clearly. He tries to dart his gaze away before he can make out his eye but Thancred says,

“Look at me.”

And so he does, with an almost inaudible whimper.

Thancred… does not look—

Angry.

It is a miracle, but Ikael knows that as soon as he confesses to the reaction he gets from hearing… her name, Thancred will hate him so much he will not be able to push it aside, and he—

“Stop _thinking_. Gods, Ikael.”

He is jolted out of thoughts. Thancred—Thancred's face is… soft? Almost… almost tender.

Ikael does not deserve this. _He does not deserve this_ , he thinks as Thancred cautiously removes his hand, then relaxes when Ikael obediently says nothing. _Gods, he is so sorry_.

“How long have you been carrying all of that?” Thancred asks.

Ikael starts. Thancred—Thancred sounds—no, he—

His voice is _gentle_. Of all the ridiculous things. He keeps going, says, “Ever since _Ul’dah_?” and adds, “By the Twelve,” in a quiet voice.

He is _smiling_. Ikael does not understand.

Thancred looks at him for a long moment, and his face softens further. “You do not have to feel such guilt. I don’t—” He pauses. It is not a break; he seems to be contemplating whether or not he should continue his sentence. He shifts, closer to Ikael, extends a hand slowly, as if he is approaching a frightened deer. Ikael is confused as Thancred's hand squeezes his arm and remains there.

“Take a moment,” Thancred says, still in that same odd tone. “Be calm. I am not angry. Breathe.”

Ikael does as he says, trying his best to calm his breathing. He does not know what is going on.

Thancred says, “Alright. I would tell you to sit down, but, ah. Well. Ikael, first of all,” He ducks his head so that they are at the same level, “I do not hate you. I never have.”

Ikael croaks out a strange noise, and feels his tail flail wildly behind him. Thancred is—he is lying—he—no… he isn’t—what—

“Shh, it’s alright. See? I thought I should start with that, since it is, in my opinion, the worst veritable sin on your list. Do you honestly think that I could hate you? Come on—I had one extra drink at the tavern the other day and you baked me a pie. I have never met someone else so mother-henningly generous.”

 _I’m not a mother hen_ , Ikael thinks ridiculously.

“As for the rest…” Thancred looks somber for a moment. “I know that I alone cannot relieve you of your guilt, as that is for only you to allay, but know this: The Scions do not blame you for anything. _I_ do not blame you. The only person whom you have wronged who needs your forgiveness, Ikael,” he taps Ikael’s shoulder, “Is yourself.”

“Hh,” says Ikael.

Thancred smiles. “Ah, and I feel as though your martyrdom shall never fade, but I can guarantee that we have never even considered the thought that your life should ever be the one sacrificed instead of… well, whomever. Who would bake us feel-better pies, then? Who would offer an intrusive supply of hugs?”

Thancred is being… he is being inane. What…?

“You’re so,” Ikael mumbles, and clears his throat. “You’re such an idiot.”

Thancred beams at him. “Are you saying you do not wish for a hug right now?” he says. “Are you _sure_?”

Ikael… doesn’t want to specifically deny any desire for a hug. He mumbles something that sounds like a grunt.

Thancred—Thancred _laughs_ , says, “Now those ears are perking up,” and then Ikael is being engulfed in a hug, and he—hiccups, which means he will start crying again at any minute.

Thancred murmurs, “Do not underestimate your worth, Ikael. You are a very dear friend to all of us. And we do not blame you. For anything.”

Ikael starts crying.

“You are also so strangely emotional sometimes it is a wonder you get any primal-slaying done at all,” Thancred says, and it is probably lucky that Ikael is in no frame of mind to pay direct attention to his words.

Thancred says something else, perhaps, he isn’t sure—Ikael senses his mind cloud over, feels warm and a bit better than he had ten minutes ago, and—Thancred smells nice; he has a nice smell, and Ikael feels very tired and drowsy all of a sudden, the events of all of these past months finally having caught up to him.

He doesn’t see Thancred's blink of surprise when he slumps weakly into unconsciousness.

~*~

Ikael awakens on a cot in what he blearily recognizes as a tent, from a look around. He can still hear people celebrating outside, closer than they had been before, but still muted. He has been loosely tucked in, but the blanket is thin given the heat of the region. Thancred must have brought him here—Ikael feels a surge of gratefulness. He needs to make his favourite food sometime soon as thanks.

He sits up, rests his head against the wall and closes his eyes. The thought of food makes him realize how hungry he is, but the thought of Thancred—well.

Ikael believes him, trusts that Thancred would not lie to him like that. He will always blame himself, he knows, because it _is his fault_ , but… knowing that the Scions at least do not hold it against him even when he could have done something…

It helps.

Ikael lets out a slow exhale, and it turns into a sigh. Perhaps it is because they feel the same guilt as he does, or perhaps it truly is because of his feel-better pies (which he will not stop baking, thank you), but whatever the reason, he is too tired to give it much thought. He can later, maybe, when he stares at his secondary soul crystal and dwells on all of his mistakes, but not… not now.

His ears pick up a shuffling of cloth that signifies someone entering the tent, and he opens his eyes. Thancred enters, and smiles at Ikael when he sees him, coming to kneel by the bed.

“Good, you’re awake,” he says. “You really do need to get more rest, my friend. I invite you again to imagine what it would have been like were I Alphinaud—the poor boy can barely carry his sister, let alone you. Although I admit, it would have been amusing to watch.”

Ikael snorts. “Not for me,” he says. Then he stills, and has very little difficulty in looking Thancred in the eye this time. “I still need to say something,” he tells him. “And this time, it is honestly very probable that you would hate me for it.”

“I am sure you think that about everything,” Thancred replies, but there is something in his gaze that contradicts the light tone of his voice.

Ikael says, “I need to tell you. About why I was sick earlier. The thing is, I…” Thancred is looking at him calmly. “… I have… feelings. I mean—obviously, we all have feelings, I’m not implying that anyone doesn’t—that’s absurd—I mean, ah. I, uh… well.”

He should get this much out clearly, at least. Thancred and… they both deserve at least that.

Ikael tilts his chin up. “Sometimes, I think I remember things,” he says. “Certain words, or… names remind me of… events I’d rather forget. I still get so… _angry_ when someone mentions the Heaven’s Ward—there’s only ever one member I think of when they are brought up. And, uh, now, with one name in particular there’s a lot of… a lot of shame and guilt associated with it. It’s only recently, when you began talking…”

Ikael trails off. The urge to look down is overwhelming, and he has to grind his teeth together to resist it. He loosens his jaw, prepares to keep speaking—

“Ikael,” Thancred says, “It’s alright.”

Ikael shakes his head. “It is not,” he says. “I shouldn’t… it’s wrong. You deserve… sh—ah, sh-she deserves…”

“Stop, before you throw up again,” Thancred says, reaching forward to—steady him, which is a surprise. Ikael hadn’t noticed he had started shaking. “Don’t think about it. Think about… er, pies. Make yourself one after this, alright? So you can feel better.”

Ikael holds out his hand in front of him, forces it to stop trembling. “I’m sorry,” he says, “I-it’s just too soon, I’ll try this again in the morning—”

Thancred shakes his head. “Tis not your fault. You were obviously affected by… all of those events very strongly, and even if you weren’t, an involuntary reaction is _not_ your doing. You do not have to think about it anymore than you want to.”

Ikael frowns at him, confused. “Does it not make you angry?” he asks. “I mean, you cared for her dearly, and I’m just being so… disrespectful, even if I don’t mean it—it must make you resent me at least a little.”

Thancred sits down on the cot next to Ikael. His brows are drawn together, and he looks serious, but not upset.

“To tell you the truth,” he says, “I had some suspicions that Min… ah—sorry—that that particular name, or at least some mention of the surrounding events, were affecting you, ah, negatively. I admit that those suspicions were brought to mind tonight, but I was too engrossed in my own reflections to pay much heed to you. For that, I apologize; I should have stopped talking when I realized you were becoming uncomfortable.”

He holds up a hand when Ikael opens his mouth to comment. “No, really. I _did_ notice, but I was being selfish. It is… a trait that people tend to let manifest around you, Ikael—I am honestly worried that one day you will injure yourself gravely because someone asked you to gather aether readings that could only be achieved by jumping off a cliff. I have tried my best to not take advantage of you, but,” He sighs, and is the one to look away this time, “I gave in, I suppose. For that I am very sincerely sorry.”

Ikael squints at him, thinking. “I… want to be there to listen to you,” he says slowly. “You are my friend. You are all important to me—I don’t refuse to help not because I cannot, but because I hold no desire to.”

“Still, I could have gone to someone else,” Thancred argues, “Or waited for a better time. At the very least, I should have realized that what you were feeling was far more severe than any rejection I would have faced had you not listened.” His face softens into a smile, then. “I will endeavor to do so in the future,” he says, “since your self-preservation instincts are apparently nonexistent.”

Ikael gives a small sigh, but accepts the jibe and lets himself laugh a little. “So you do not hold it against me, then?” he asks, looking up at Thancred in quiet earnestness. He wants to be sure. “It would make complete sense if you do—I would understand.”

Thancred shakes his head. “I hold nothing against you, my friend,” he says. “And if I ever do, I promise to go to you and attempt to resolve the conflict solely through violence, since it is a language you are oh so fluent in. And then you shall win, and so you won’t start crying and force me to talk about my feelings for half a bell.”

“You are being so cruel to me,” says Ikael, faking a sniffle, but the effort is dampened by his growing smile.

Thancred squeezes his shoulder and then stands up. “Get some sleep. Honestly,” he says. “You are physically exhausted, if nothing else. I will come back in ten minutes and drug you if you are not unconscious.”

“Low blow,” says Ikael, lying back down. He closes his eyes as his head hits the small pillow. It is lumpy, but he _is_ tired, and he cannot bring himself to care.

“Thancred,” he murmurs, and his voice is already drowsy, “Thank you.”

“I expect an excellently-cooked meal as recompense in the morning,” is Thancred's reply, and Ikael drifts off to the sound of him exiting the tent.

~*~

**Author's Note:**

> I feel like for Ikael personally, thinking that he should be the one replacing Minfilia and balancing out Light/Darkness in a way that would make Elidibus possibly leave the Scions alone is something that he would feel very, very guilty over. The fact that no one points this out as a possible solution in the game (most likely because they wouldn't even consider it) probably just makes it worse for him.  
> and he's too much of a weenie to say something lol


End file.

**Author's Note:**

> ...You ever get those ideas...that you know you _probably should let die in your brain_ but you start writing them anyway? You ever have those friends you expect to **stop you** from doing certain things and then they don't? 
> 
> Yeah, well, I do. And here we are. But it's cute as hell so I hope you enjoy anyway :'D WoL left vague so y'all can insert your own. (Except popotos. This is definitely not a popoto.)

Early mornings in Coerthas were as frigid as the nights. Like any mountainous region, the land depended on the warmth of the sun to heat itself. So, barring extreme circumstances, life in Camp Dragonhead depended on the location of the sun. Until it peaked over the distant horizon and graced the frozen lands with its blessed warmth, no one with any say in the matter would step outside even if you paid them. So, while one might find other military outposts beginning their days at the crack of dawn, most of the camp yet remained in their in beds.

Of course, the camp was not completely devoid of life. The cooks were already toiling in the kitchen to prepare a hearty breakfast which would lure the soldiers from the warmth of their bunks and into the dining hall. The chirurgeon on night duty quietly moved from bed to bed, quietly observing the rise and fall of each patient’s chest, content in the knowledge that they would live to see another dawn. And those unfortunate souls on night watch were counting the minutes until they were relieved of their posts.

When the Warrior of Light arrived with her chocobo in a flash of light beside the aetheryte, there was no one around to witness her arrival save for the lone guard posted nearby. His eyes flicked to her in surprise, quickly travelling up and down her form to determine who she was. She was dressed differently than usual but there was no mistaking her identity. Who else was crazy enough to show up at such an _unholy_ hour?

So engrossed was she in the parchment in her hands that the guard did not bother to greet her but instead made a mental note to himself to inform Lord Haurchefant at breakfast. It was no secret that their commander had taken a shine to her from the first and he would no doubt be cross if he discovered she had been here and no one had bothered to tell him.

The Warrior of Light lowered the parchment and gave the area a cursory glance before walking to the north edge of the platform. She rolled up the parchment, tucked it in her belt, then planted her hands on the parapet and vaulted over it without a word. Her bird followed with a gleeful cry and disappeared. The guard’s eyes bulged and he raced over to the parapet to look over the side. The young woman and her companion were already halfway to the gate, no worse for the wear, and the guard shook his head.

Bloody adventurers.

* * *

 

By the time the Warrior returned to Camp Dragonhead, the sun had finally peaked over the mountains and the morning activities were in full swing. Breakfast was over and knights headed for their duties, be it training, patrol, watch, or one of the other responsibilities assigned to those stationed here. Among the crowd trickling out from the dining hall was a certain silver-haired lord.

Haurchefant had been made aware of the Warrior’s arrival at breakfast and was pleased to hear she was nearby. Indeed, he hoped he’d have a chance to see her today, though there was always a risk that she would simply teleport away once her business had concluded as adventurers were wont to do. She hadn’t announced her presence this morning so like as not she wasn’t here on any official business.

It was quite fortunate, then, that a spot of color near the north gate caught his eye as he made his way to the great hall. The chocobo’s unusually colored plumage gleamed in the morning light and Haurchefant was smiling before he even saw the Warrior herself astride the bird, for who else would be so bold as to pass through the gates without pause…and allow their chocobo’s feathers to become such an interesting shade.

She held the reins in one hand and a piece of parchment in the other, which she studied intently, trusting her chocobo to not run into anything on its own. Her return could only mean she had more business to conduct nearby.

“Good morning, my friend!” he called.

She raised her head at once, eyes scanning the clearing, and when they found him, her entire face lit up. She pulled on the reins lightly and her chocobo came to a halt, warbling quietly while she dismounted. Haurchefant approached her with a broad grin on his face.

“Yours is ever a welcome face here. When I was informed of your arrival early this morning, I had hoped you would return. I should very much like a chance to bid you hello whenever you pass through.”

She smiled and rolled the parchment in her hands carefully, tucking it into her belt. “I thought it better to not announce myself this morning given the early hour,” she replied in that strange, lilting accent of hers that he wasn’t worldly enough to place. He smiled nonetheless for hearing her voice was nothing short of a privilege as she preferred to keep quiet unless necessary.

“What were you even doing out at such an hour, if you don’t mind me asking?”

She pursed her lips and hesitated before answering. He wondered what on Hydaelyn she could’ve been doing out there that would bring her pause. “I was…collecting something rare,” she finally replied.

Haurchefant folded his arms thoughtfully. What could be rare and valuable enough for such an early jaunt in the coldest reaches of Eorzea? He asked her thus and she licked her lips, seeming to wrestle with herself for a moment, during which time his mind wandered beyond the North gate to the region beyond. Not much dwelled there except lower members of the horde, beastkin, and the infestation of voidsent in the caverns. Could she have been after something guarded by the voidsent? Aevis scales? Or perhaps something kept by the Ixali in Natalan?

She turned to her chocobo and gestured to the small stack of logs tied behind the saddle and his wondrous musings were cut short. It was then that he realized she was missing her usual weapons but instead carried a hatchet upon her back. Haurchefant looked from the tool to the wood and cocked his head once more as understanding dawned.

“Is that wood?”

She nodded.

“Y-you were gathering wood?” he repeated, surprised. Something in her expression shifted and he immediately backpedaled. “Pray, forgive my incredulity, I simply was expecting something less…mundane.”

The corner of her lip twitched upwards. “Did you know that spruce wood should only be harvested during the early morning hours? At night, the wood is too frozen to work with and anything you manage to harvest will be spoiled. During the day, one runs the risk of getting covered in sap and I’ve been told that the value of the wood is not even close to worth the trouble.”

Haurchefant blinked. No, suffice to say he had not been aware of that. “Oh,” was all he managed before composing himself once more.

“And did you know that the only place in Eorzea that spruce trees can be found consistently is right here in Coerthas?”

He nodded. “That I did know, but mayhap you will enlighten me as to why you were after spruce to begin with?”

“A carpenter in Mor Dhona has need of some,” she said simply. Ah, so that was the way of it. She was simply doing what adventurers did best…a welcome change after the circumstances which had brought her to Coerthas in the past.

“I see. Then I assume you have other business here in Coerthas today since you did not simply teleport back to Revenant’s Toll?” He smirked. “Or were you trying to save the coin for such a relatively short trip? Between you and me, I should think no price is too steep if it saves one the journey through the snows.”

She smiled and shook her head. “I have other things as well.” She patted the piece of parchment at her hip. “Reckon I’ll be spending most of the day out here.”

Haurchefant looked her up and down with concern. She wore a red tunic with loose sleeves that extended to her forearms, matching trousers, and a tan leather vest, held together by what appeared to be _teeth_. Her knee length boots at least would protect her feet from the snows and her gloves covered her hands in their entirety, which was not always the case with her. But she wore no scarf or hat and he was quite certain the sleeves on that tunic would do little to ward off the chill for long. “My friend, I fear you are ill-dressed to be spending hours out in the cold.”

She smiled. “I brought a coat. Don’t worry about me.”

“Still, even my knights are given plenty of opportunity to warm themselves by the fire lest they freeze. That you should be out in the wilderness alone for hours on end does not sit well with me.” He told her plainly and her expression hardened. He wondered if she believed he intended to stop her. Far from it, actually. “So, perhaps you might allow me to accompany you.”

He grinned but her frown only deepened, wariness replaced by concern. Her head turned in the direction of the main hall where he often spent his days at his desk, pouring over piles of paperwork not unlike the ones that certainly awaited him today. But she didn’t need to know that!

“You are concerned that I have other duties?” he guessed. “Pray, do not let it trouble you. My officers are more than capable of managing things for one day. The heretics have been unusually silent recently—which we attribute to you putting Lady Iceheart in her place for the second time in a row, by the way.” Ah, there was her smile once more, this time somewhere between embarrassment and pride. “And we’ve received no concerning reports from the Observatory. Honestly, the timing could not be more perfect. You will be able to collect the items on your list without fear of being caught unawares, I do not have to spend the rest of the day worrying that you froze to death, and we get to enjoy each other’s company away from prying ears and without interruptions from a certain young elezen.”

Her lips quirked in amusement and she folded her arms. He allowed her a moment or two to consider him and his proposal before grinning once more. “Lord Haurchefant,” she said slowly, “I do believe you are trying to use me as an excuse to get out of work for the day.”

“Me? Nay, rather, I think I shall be in for far more strenuous work if I accompany you…but I am willing to brave such a task! All that awaits me here is another day at my desk,” he added.

The Warrior of Light shook her head slowly and Haurchefant knew from the grin on her face that he had her. “I think my chocobo might be a bit too small to carry us both.”

“That’s quite alright. I have my own trusty companion who would probably enjoy a day of activity as well. They can keep each other company.”

She shook her head again and laughed quietly. “It’s not going to be glamorous,” she warned him. “Or daring or romantic or any other notions you have about adventuring dancing about in that peculiar head of yours.”

“You find my head to be peculiar?”

“As a moogle’s pom,” she deadpanned.

“Well, daring or not, I should think a day with you will prove most interesting,” he stated matter-of-factly, earning him a sigh.

“Alright.” She jabbed a finger at his chest. “But if you’re going to come then you’re going to help, too.”

Grinning broadly, Haurchefant lifted his hand to his heart. “You have my word.”

“I’ll be waiting to the west when you’re ready to depart,” she informed him and mounted her chocobo, who trilled excitedly and flapped its wings when she was seated.

“Someone’s ready to go right this instant,” he noted. “I shall be quick, then.”

It took him about a quarter bell to get things in order. Haurchefant appreciated Corentiaux’s attempts to not smile while he explained where he was going. The knight would handle what paperwork he could, set aside what he could not, and was given instructions to inform any who came to call on Haurchefant that he was providing escort for a guest of House Fortemps for the day. He asked the cook to put together a lunch for them and had the stable hand ready his chocobo with a riding saddle and bags for supplies. Foleux was not normally reduced to the role of a chocobo of burden but as a war steed, he certainly would be able to bear the load of whatever the Warrior asked him to carry. Once he was certain his chocobo would be suitably prepared, he went to fetch his coat from his quarters and a pair of shoes more suited to traipsing around the countryside.

When he was finally ready to depart, he mounted Foleux and headed West. Unlike the North and South, the West had no small gate through which to enter and instead had a shorter wall that did not quite reach the South wall and left a wide-open space, intended to allow Ishgardian forces come and go as they please. At first, Haurchefant had believed this to be a design flaw, but his father had made an excellent point: if enemies were coming from that direction then they likely had more serious concerns than Camp Dragonhead being invaded.

Of course, the architects had been focused on defenses against humanoid foes, possibly dravanian ones, and likely had not taken Goobues into consideration when making that call. Oh well. At least it kept things interesting.

Foleux trotted along casually and Haurchefant kept his head on a swivel as he searched for the Warrior. She had made no mention of any specific location before, only that she would be to the West. He couldn’t imagine she’d gone very far though. He had no sooner thought this than his eyes caught a flash of color near a tree several yalms off the path.

The Warrior’s chocobo stood alone, casually grooming the feathers beneath its lifted wing. He raised his head at Haurchefant’s approach and let out a loud _kweh!_ Foleux answered the call. Chuckling, Haurchefant dismounted and lead Foleux by the reins over to the Warrior’s chocobo, whose name escaped him now that he thought about it. He’d have to ask.

The chocobos sniffed each other and chirped softly, then the Warrior’s chocobo lightly prodded Foleux’s hat with his beak. Foleux tossed his head and gave himself a shake, rufflings his feathers. Satisfied that they were going to get along, Haurchefan’t gently stroked the chocobo’s neck. “Where’s your master gone?” he asked.

As if in answer to his question, Haurchefant heard something small drop to the snow somewhere behind him. He turned around but saw no one. A few moments passed and then something red from the sky and landed in the snow with a similar sound to that from before. Then came another.

Was that an apple?

He looked up and blinked in surprise. Was that—? Why, it was.

The Warrior of Light herself laying along a branch of a tree, reaching for an apple hanging precariously far from the branch. As he watched, her fingers closed around the apple and she appeared to inspect it briefly before plucking it from the branch and letting it drop to the ground. It landed with a soft _thud_ in the snow and she moved on to another branch.

He looked at the ground around him and realized that there were dozens of such indents in the snows surrounding the trees. By the Fury, she must have been up in the trees this whole time!

“Apples?” he called to her with an amused smile. The Warrior looked at him and grinned toothily. “Why are you picking apples?”

She leaped from the tree and landed in the snow before him, sending up a small flurry. He raised his hand to shield his face and she straightened up, no worse from the wear even after such a landing, and brushed the snow from her clothes. “Because there’s apples to be picked, my lord,” she replied with a lighthearted smile.

“A fair answer, I suppose. Are they on your list or did you simply seek to pass the time?”

“Apparently the Bismarck released a new dish made with Mirror Apples and it’s so popular that their usual suppliers can’t keep up,” she explained. “I’ve been promised a serving as part of my payment.”

“The…Bismarck?” repeated Haurchefant unsurely. He’d heard the name before, certainly, but only in relation to the beast tribe that dwelled near their outpost in the Sea of Clouds, and he doubted very much that they were thinking of the same thing.

He could tell that his ignorance caught her off guard. “O-oh, right. The Bismarck is a famous restaurant in Limsa Lominsa,” she explained. “It’s also the home of the Culinarian’s guild. You’ve not heard of it?”

“I do believe there are a great many things within the realm I’ve not heard of. When an entire nation tends to shun outsiders, details of life beyond the borders don’t often make their way to its peoples’ ears,” he explained. There was pity on her face then, and remorse, and Haurchefant shook his head. “Don’t fret. This is not the first time an Adventurer has taught me about the rest of the world, nor will it be the last.”

The Warrior nodded and then looked around at the numerous holes in the snow. “I think I almost have enough. Would you mind collecting them while I knock a few more down?”

Haurchefant smiled and dipped into a flourishing bow. “As you wish.”

She rolled her eyes and made for the tree she had jumped from before. “Just grab one of the empty bags from Bobby’s saddle.”

He blinked in surprise. “Bobby?” he repeated incredulously.

“Bobby Corwen if you’re feeling formal,” she called over her shoulder as she leaped into the tree. He watched her go with wide eyes and wondered if she’d been trained in the ways of the Dragoons without him knowing. Then he looked at the odd-colored chocobo…Bobby Corwen…who was watching him expectantly.

Haurchefant quickly pushed his questions aside and went to fetch a bag as ordered, noting the number of empty sacks hanging from the saddle. If she intended to fill all of these then they were certainly in for a long day of foraging. Well, she had warned him it wouldn’t be glamorous, hadn’t she? He couldn’t help but smile as he set to work collecting apples from the thick snow that had served to cushion their fall. The sack grew heavy ere long and he was forced to retrieve yet another to continue collecting. Every so often he heard more apples fall to the ground nearby.

A particularly loud thud followed a brief period of silence, announcing the Warrior’s descent from on high, and she helped him collect the last few apples from the ground.

“I counted precisely fifty-five,” he informed her, nodding to the two in her hands. “Those make fifty-seven.”

She grinned and towards the chocobos with the apples still in hand. Realizing what she intended, he carefully tied the bag off and followed her. She handed an apple to Bobby Corwen, who gobbled it up at once, but when she turned to Foleux, she paused. He understood her surprise, it was not often that outsiders got to see an Ishgardian black chocobo up close. Unlike their yellow counterparts, they were not sold to the rest of Eorzea, kept exclusively for high ranking members of the military, Holy See, and nobility. Someone such as herself had probably never been in the presence of one.

Or it could’ve been the sheer size of the bird since he had been bred to carry a full-grown elezen.

“His name is Foleux,” Haurchefant said. “And he was born this color, unlike…” he glanced at her chocobo, who almost looked offended at his statement.

She, on the other hand, seemed impressed. She pulled her hand free of its glove with her teeth and extended it towards his face. Foleux ducked his head and gave her fingers a cursory sniff…then promptly turned his attention to the apple in her other hand. She happily surrendered it and put her glove back on, then she turned to Haurchefant and held out her hands for the bag. She inspected the knot at the top before fastening it securely to Bobby’s saddle.

“Fifty-five apples for the Bismarck: complete,” he declared. “Though out of curiosity, how many of those dishes do you think this will make?”

She tapped her chin thoughtfully. “Well, I imagine each requires one or two apples…and they may find fault with some of the apples…so, perhaps between thirty or fifty.”

He frowned. They would need more than that to feed the residents of Camp Dragonhead for one meal. She must simply be supplementing their supplier’s contributions rather than taking their place. “Well, after you make your delivery, mayhap you can bring me a dish as well. I shall even supply the coin!”

The Warrior chuckled, plucked the parchment from her belt once more, and unrolled it. She pulled a small writing utensil that he could not name from a pouch on her waist and drew a careful black line through one of the items on her list. Haurchefant peered over her shoulder curiously. Her list was…confusing at best. Though she appeared to have categorized her tasks into two sections, he couldn’t for the life of him figure out what they were. He recognized words written with the Eorzean alphabet here and there, but a majority of her tasks had been penned with characters he did not recognize.

“What language is that?” he queried. The Warrior quirked her brow at him and smiled. A thought occurred to him then and before she could respond, he went on, “Is this your native tongue?”

The Warrior of Light laughed openly at him and shook her head. “Your language is spoken across Hydaelyn, more than any other by far, so do you not think it feasible that other cultures and peoples would have different ways of writing it? Ways more akin to those of their regional languages?”

For once, Haurchefant was the one staring at her in silence.

“Here.” She held up the parchment and pointed to the line beneath the one she had just crossed out, the words a series of squiggled lines and sharp edges that he could not make out. “This is ‘mistletoe’.”

“So, am I to understand that this is exactly the same language but written with different letters?” She nodded and Haurchefant was amazed. He’d had no idea such a thing was possible. How did people send letters, missives, decrees, or anything of the sort when their recipient may not even understand what their eyes were seeing even though their ears would? But then, who was he to question a system so far removed from his own? He was certain the ways of Ishgardians must confuse her quite often but she never complained. “Then what are these symbols here?” He pointed to the squiggles at the end of the line.

“Numbers,” she explained. “About how many I need. But we shouldn’t try to collect this until later in the day.”

He nodded. “So, what are we after in the meantime?”

She hummed thoughtfully, tapping her chin and scanning her list. “Hippogriff Sinew,” she finally decided.

“And here I thought we would be after plants all day!” he crowed, pleased at the opportunity to fight alongside her again, even if only against simple beasts. “Packs of them can be found not far from here.” He pointed in the direction of Whitebrim. “By your leave, my friend.”

They mounted their chocobos once again and set off with Haurchefant slightly in the lead.

* * *

 

Haurchefant quickly realized that she must have planned her day in advance because they were making a rather large circle around the Nail as they collected the items from her list. Sinew from Hippocerfs, the tender meat from Mudpuppy tails, fangs from wolves, and to his horror, vampire weed. With each task came an explanation of who needed these materials and what were they for. Each purpose was as mundane as the last but he could not help but be fascinated, both by the glimpses into life beyond Coerthas—he would never have guessed that vampire weed was a key ingredient in potent potions—and by the fact that she was talking.

Before today, he could count on his hands how many times she had contributed vocally to their conversations. Usually she preferred a silent response or allowed others to do the talking, as was the case during the diplomatic meetings with Ser Aymeric. He had accepted it as simply her way and had yet to grow bold enough to ask her why.

Yet here she was, speaking freely as if it were what she’d always done. Could it be that this was normal for her and he was only now seeing this side of her because this was the first time they had ever been truly alone together? Or was this something special? He would like to believe the latter but sensibility told him he ought to know better. Perhaps she was simply eager to expand his horizons.

The work was more strenuous than anticipated but despite her warning that it would be neither daring nor glamorous, he enjoyed every minute of it. Well, nearly every minute. He had no experience with such a precise task and was forced to hold parcels open for her while she efficiently collected the sinew from the Hippocerf carcasses. He was no stranger to blood, battle, or hunting by any measure and he had seen his fair share of gore…yet he disliked watching her do it. He attempted to distract himself by asking her exactly sinew was used for but she had simply shaken her head and focused on the task, only answering him after she was done and they were tying off the parcels.

Haurchefant noticed as well that, apart from the restaurant in Limsa Lominsa, all of her clients were located in nearby Revenant’s Toll. Being relevant to Ishgardian interests, knowledge of the outpost flowed freely across their borders and though he himself had never visited it, Haurchefant was well aware of its nature, purpose, and chief residents: adventurers. The whole bloody outpost was populated by them and a decent share must have turned up on his doorstep by now looking for work, those who had survived the “hospitality” of the encampments between the outpost and Camp Dragonhead, at any rate. Why could they simply not do these tasks themselves? Why spend the coin to send another adventurer off to do their work?

These thoughts ran circles around his head as the hours passed and by the time they had stopped for lunch on the banks of the river, he could resist no longer and finally voiced his thoughts. After all, who in their right mind would ask _the Warrior of Light_ to do even half of these things? The Warrior, who had been unhooking the bedroll from Bobby Corwen’s saddle, laughed so hard that the chocobos warbled in concern and Haurchefnat wondered what exactly he’d said that was so funny.

“Lest you forget, Lord Haurchefant, I am an adventurer first and foremost,” she said through her chortling. Taking a deep breath, she exhaled slowly through her mouth and the last of her laughter died away. Now calm, she turned to him with a strange little smile on her face. “I am only the Warrior of Light because others decreed it. I am an adventurer because it’s what I chose, it’s what I do.”

“You have not answered my question,” he pointed out.

At this, the Warrior cracked a grin, once more returning to the task of retrieving the bedroll. “Let me ask you one instead: why are you the commander of Dragonhead?”

If anyone else in the realm would have asked him this question, Haurchefant would have considered it to be a reference to his status and been insulted. Though no one had ever said such words to his face, he knew they had been spoken behind his back by high and lowborn alike. It was not, after all, common practice to bequeath such a station to a bastard. But she was not like the people of his nation and he doubted she even _knew_ the situation of his birth. That realization was more refreshing than he’d anticipated.

So, he smiled. “Camp Dragonhead has been owned by House Fortemps since the days of Thordan II and has always been always under the command of a son or daughter of House Fortemps, excepting periods of time when a new heir to command had not yet reached a suitable age.”

As he spoke, she rifled through one of Bobby Corwen’s saddlebags with the bedroll tucked under one arm, and pulled out a small bundle and a flask. “I find it difficult to believe that Ishgard would allow its military forts to be commanded simply based on lineage,” she remarked as she closed the bag.

“Then, pray, allow me to finish.”

She turned and shook her head. “Forgive me.”

He cleared his throat pointedly and she quirked her lips. “You are correct in your assumption: birth alone is not enough to assume command. One must have suitable experience in combat and strategy…along with management skills and superb penmanship,” he added, eliciting a small chuckle from her. “Moreover, I have not held my command more than few summers and in the time between that day and attaining my knighthood, I had proven myself in the field countless times and apprenticed under my late uncle, who held command before me.”

The Warrior of Light held the bundle in her teeth and tucked the flask into her belt while she unfurled her bedroll and spread it out on the ground a few yalms away from the riverbank. She plopped down onto it and he followed suit, albeit with much more care. He would hate to damage something she probably relied on.

She dropped the bundle into her lap and began untying it. “So, you had to earn your position and respect, correct?”

 _More than you know, my friend._ “Correct.”

He took note of the meager lunch she had packed for herself—half a loaf of bread, a block of white cheese, and a few pieces of dried meat—and was glad that he had had enough prepared for both of them.

“Then we are the same. I, like many an adventurer, came to Mor Dhona with a title or two that I had earned for my deeds, titles which would have guaranteed me respect anywhere else. But in Revenant’s Toll, all who arrive do so as equals, for we are all of us members of the adventurer’s guild, in a place not of our birth, making it our own. Respect and power must be earned through hard work and longevity. Simply put: to be someone, you must first prove that you are worthy to be. To live in the Toll, you must pay the toll.”

Such a policy made sense, he supposed. “But is not the Scion’s base there? Does that not give you a place?”

“It gives me a place insofar as being a Scion goes,” she corrected, “but as a resident of the Toll, it does little for me. It’s like that anywhere I go, though. Don’t you recall when I arrived in Camp Dragonhead? You and your fellow knights did not instantly accept me, not truly. I earned your respect through my deeds.”

“So, you did,” he agreed. “Then that is what this is? Proving yourself?”

“Oh, no, not at all. I’ve done all that and some.” She waved her hand dismissively. “No, this is ‘cos somehow, word got around the Toll that I had earned the favor of members of the High Houses in Coerthas, thus giving me nearly unfettered access to this whole region. And since everyone knows I’m hardworking and reliable, I’ve become sort of the go-to girl for anything needed in Coerthas.”

Haurchefant looked at the satchels and sacks loaded onto her chocobo’s saddle and laughed. “Who better to send than one who receives a smile at the gates rather than a spear at the face? I daresay you must be quite busy.” She shrugged. “Well, you certainly have a corner of the market all to yourself! Does this mean we are to see more of you in the coming days?”

“I suppose, yes…”

“Splendid!” he cried. “I insist you come and visit me whenever you’re in the area. As I’ve said before, a warm hearth and a warmer welcome will always be waiting for you, and a warm bed should you require it.”

“Aye but what’ll it warmed _by_?” she muttered and lifted one of the dried meat strips to her mouth.

“That will be entirely up to you, my dear.” He winked and opened his own meal bag.

If given more time, he had no doubt Medguistl would have sent him off with something much heartier, but he silently thanked her for her foresight in packing his meal. Two loaves of knight’s bread, two apples, two slabs of mutton, and a small sack of roasted sweet nuts. Haurchefant caught her eyeing the food almost immediately but she uttered not a word as he unceremoniously began moving half of each portion to her lap. Only after he had deemed their lunches adequately divided did she murmur, “You didn’t have to.”

He smiled. “And yet I did.”

She was quiet for a few moments longer then she broke off half of the cheese from her own meal and set it amongst his lunch. She smiled and he understood.

They ate in companionable silence, listening to the babbling brook, the warbling of their chocobos, and the distant chatter of the local wildlife.

Haurchefant’s eyes kept turning skywards as he ate, a habit shared by many Ishgardians. When outdoors in a group, at any given moment at least one person had their eyes on the sky, watching, waiting. The curse of being born and raised to fear the enemy that came from above. It was such a common mannerism that it wasn’t considered rude to Ishgardians, something he knew had caused problems with foreign visitors in the past who expected a reasonable amount of eye contact in their conversations.

When he glanced at the Warrior, her eyes were always on the world below. The water, the mudpuppies prowling upstream, the chocobos, the nutkin scurrying around on the opposite bank. She had no fear of the heavens. If anything, he thought, the heavens should fear her. He wished he could live as she did.

His eyes flicked to the sky. Empty, clear of clouds, birds, and dragons alike. For now.

He was a proud knight and dutiful to his command, his people. He had pledged his life to serve and gladly would he, yet he could not help but envy her her freedom. To come, to go, to enjoy the sky, to know the world. Would he could, he would join her on her return to Revenant’s Toll, to Limsa Lominsa, and wherever else she may roam. Truly, it would be simple to go, but he knew guilt and duty would compel him to return to his people ere long. T’was his place in life to serve Ishgard and hers to serve the realm.

“Tis a wonder how you can have private thoughts at all,” the Warrior said softly and he realized she’d been watching him. “You have such an expressive face.”

He smiled weakly. “So I’ve been told.” Had she seen the wistfulness in his gaze?

“What troubles you?”

“Naught worth discussing, truly. You need not worry yourself on my account.”

She did not seem convinced and she lifted her gaze to the sky as if it held the answers. He hoped she would never have to see it darken with the members of the horde.

“Come,” he said, “should we not be returning to your mission? Dusk may not be for hours yet but the western mountains are high and we shall lose the light far sooner than you may think.”

To his utter relief, she agreed.

* * *

 

Among the final items on her list was a rather simple one…in theory. In practice, not so much. Several pounds of wool, the higher quality the better, and such a thing could only be procured locally from karakuls. And each and every one of them had a rather ornery disposition. They may look cute and cuddly on the outside and they were usually docile, but all it took was one wrong move and they turned into little vicious _demons_. They had been known to kill themselves from head butting their targets so hard, an experience that Haurchefant had been assured was worse for the survivor.

Were it in his power, he would happily direct her to the flocks of karakuls kept by Ishgardian shepherds that were quite used to being sheared. He was certain some manner of arrangement could be made but it would likely earn strong disapproval from the Holy See.

“Might you consider collecting the wool…elsewhere?” he suggested as they neared Griffin Crossing.

She shook her head. “There is nowhere else, not at this quality without selling half my soul. Why?”

“Because…karakuls…” He grimaced. That was a mistake.

The Warrior’s lips spread into a devilish grin and she narrowed her eyes. “Are you afraid, Ser Greystone?”

“Have you ever battled one of these?”

She stared at him, thoroughly unimpressed.

“More experienced knights than you have been bedridden by those voidsent beasts,” he said gravely.

She quirked her brow. “And more experienced soldiers than I have fallen to primals.”

“Somehow, I doubt those powers of yours will be of any use to you here,” he countered dryly.

“They’re _sheep_ , Haurchefant.”

“Very well, but let it not be said that I did not provide you ample warning.” He sighed. The Warrior of Light was going to die at the hands—er, hooves of a karakul and it’d be all his fault.

Ishgardian soldiers were trained to deal with dragonkind, beasts twice their size or more. They valued strength over agility and wielded primarily swords, lances, and magics. They were capable of felling karakul if given enough time and managed to dodge or bait its head butts, but it was certainly not their forte. But as it happened, agility was exactly what one needed to make short work of a karakul.

Haurchefant spotted a small group of the little black devils standing some distance apart from each other and he and the Warrior dismounted their chocobos. He made no more attempts to talk her out of it and prepared to join her in her suicide mission, but she stopped in. Still dressed in the soft fabrics of her harvesting gear—as if trying to prove a _point_ or something equally ridiculous—she withdrew two daggers and a small stone from one of the pouches. He had seen her utilize a similar stone earlier when slaying the mudpuppies and hyppocerfs but this one had a different shape and hew and her choice of weapon was different, too.

“What manner of combat style is this?” Haurchefant asked curiously.

“It’s a bit of two, really.” She gave her daggers a quick look over. “One from Limsa Lominsa, the other from Doma.”

“Doma?” he repeated in surprise. “That sounds like quite a story, one I think I should like to hear.”

She grinned, winked, and _moved_ and…and… Haurchefant cried out in alarm and he looked around wildly. No footprints, no drag marks, just something like a puff a smoke and she was just _gone_ , she—

A quick, sharp whistle pierced the air and he whipped around. _There_ , in the shadow of a towering pine, she crouched low to the ground with a mischievous smirk on her face. He opened his mouth to call out to her but she pressed a finger to her lips and straightened up. Daggers in hand, she swept her arms up and bent her knees and disappeared once more. Wait, no. She didn’t disappear. He could still see her, sort of, if he squinted and tilted his head just so, but the only real indicators of her location were the tracks in the snow. His jaw dropped but he said nothing. What sort of magic was this?! Such a thing would be invaluable in the war effort.

He tracked her as she crept through the snow towards the nearest karakul, grazing on a small patch of grass it had found. Karakuls were not the most attentive of beasts, perhaps a little too inattentive considering their status as prey animals, but from the way she moved he doubted they would have noticed her approach even if she had been fully visible. She inched around behind the grazing demon and paused for a few moments, as if contemplating her attack.

She came back into view as her blade made contact with the karakul’s back and the beast let out a loud, screeching bleat. She withdrew her blade just in time, back flipping out of the way as the beast rounded on her. She darted around it, flipping and spinning as she delivered strike after strike to the furious creature which futility attempted to kick her.

Not even fifteen seconds passed from her initial strike until it laid dead on the ground.

Leaving the chocobos behind, Haurchefant approached her in amazement. She stood over her kill, positively radiating smugness, then knelt down to clean her blades in the snow.

“Allow me to extend you an offer for an official position at Dragonhead, effective immediately: karakul slayer.”

She giggled— _giggled_ —and stowed her blades. “Not the most formidable title I’ve acquired. However, it’s a little too cold around here for my tastes.”

He clasped his hands behind his back. Though the offer had been mostly in jest, he had not expected her to say yes. One such as her would not be content to confine herself to a place such as his. “Right. Well, the invitation is indefinite so perhaps you’ll reconsider once this dreadful winter finally exhausts itself.”

“As long as you don’t make me pray, I may consider it. Perhaps by then there will be a more permanent solution to primals and I will have to content myself with felling beasts like normal adventurers.”

“At present, I don’t suppose you’d be willing to give my knights lessons in that particular style of fighting?” Haurchefant asked. “I would ensure you received compensation, even if I had to…alter the intent behind the lessons in my report.”

“I could, aye, but I don’t reckon it’d be much use against dragons, what with those thick scales and all.”

“My lady, believe you me, the effectiveness against karakuls is sufficient enough.”

She cocked her head to the side. “See, I can’t tell if you’re having me on or you’re serious. I’m inclined to believe it’s a bit of both.”

“Mayhap a bit of both…but more of the latter. It’s even worse when they’re in rut.”

“I’ll take your word for it. Now, do you think we could tie a few of these to Foleux? I’d rather shear them back at camp, if it’s all the same to you. Your people can have the mutton.”

He raised his eyebrows. “Truly?”

“I have no need of it. Consider it a thanks to your knights for letting me borrow their commander for the day.” She smiled. “And to Medguistl for the lunch.”

“Then, I humbly accept your offer.” He said and bent down to lift the karakul from the ground.

Foleux seemed a bit startled to have a dead karakul tied to his back but he did not protest beyond an offended warble after he sniffed his new burden. Haurchefant patted his neck while the Warrior examined the karakul’s pelt.

“Are you looking for something?” he queried.

“Just checking the quality of the wool. The higher quality the wool, the more likely the thread it will make will turn out high quality as well. Higher the quality, higher the value. They didn’t specifically request high quality but I’d like to deliver as much as I can.”

“How many do you think you’ll need to kill?”

She checked her list before answering. “Assuming I can get usable wool from all of them? …Um…perhaps twenty?”

“By Halone!” he exclaimed. “Do you intend to rid of us our karakul problem once and for all?”

“They breed like opo-opos, there will be twenty more to replace them in a fortnight.”

“True. But still, that seems a bit…excessive.”

She put her hands on her hips and gave him a look of pure exasperation. He folded one arm across his chest and pressed his knuckle to his mouth in thought. Twenty was excessive, certainly, but he could understand the need for such a supply of wool, particularly with winter looming for the rest of the realm. Yet perhaps there was a simpler solution available, one that did not require them returning to camp with twenty dead karakuls on their chocobos. While he was sure his knights would relish the sight of the little devils delivered justice, and the amount of meat, there was the risk of the wrong person witnessing their arrival and if word got back to his father that he’d left his post to gallivant about the highlands with an adventurer, even one such as herself, he would undoubtedly receive strong disapproval in return. They had avoided Whitebrim Front and the Observatory for this very reason.

A recent missive from Skyfire Locks jumped to mind, a warning for those traveling south to be wary of a certain obscenely large karakul that had been spotted in the area recently.

“What if…” Haurchefant said slowly, “I told you that there is a karakul easily three—nay, five! Five times bigger than any of its kin, with wool as soft as a chocobo hatchling and as dark as a moonless night?”

“I’d say you’re exaggerating but do go on.”

He grinned. “His name is Downy Dunstan. He’s a bit of a local legend, they say he survived the Calamity and that Bahamut himself granted him the power and strength to become the size he is now.” She smacked her forehead and he went on. “Others say he treated with Nidhogg himself and now bears a fraction of the great wyrm’s eye in his own.” He leaned forward. “They say, if you get close enough, you’ll see it gleaming within his eye…”

“Now I _know_ you’re having me on.”

Haurchefant laughed. The sad part? He wasn’t. And the believers in these myths came from both highborn stock and low. “And some…believe him to be a primal, called upon by the karakul themselves to torment us further.” She threw him a withering look that he relished. “There’s a bounty on his head, one I’m certain you could benefit from,” he added.

She raised her eyebrows. “A bounty,” she deadpanned. “Gods, you people are serious about these sheep.”

“Not a soul has been made it away from an attempted shearing without losing at least a finger,” he informed her gravely.

“…I cannot believe this.”

“Then perhaps you should see him for yourself. I received word that he’s in the area…”

“Okay, you know what? Aye. Aye, let’s go. I want to see this bloody great sheep you’re all so wild about. I don’t even care about the bounty!”

“And should it prove to be a primal…?” he teased.

Incensed, she stomped her foot. “Then I will inform the Scions and we shall all go mad wondering who in the hells thought summoning a _sheep god_ was a good idea!”

With that, she whirled around stormed away. Bobby Corwen followed her. Fighting back laughter, Haurchefant cleared his throat. “Um, my dear? …The sightings occurred this way.”

She spun on the ball of her foot and stomped past him in the right direction. Only then did he burst out laughing.

* * *

 

“I did not wager any gil on the size of this thing, did I?”

“I do not believe so.”

“Good,” she grumbled, glowering at the massive karakul prowling near the Griffin Crossing. Haurchefant laughed yet again. Her expression upon seeing the beast had been memorable and the one she wore now, something akin to a pout, was most amusing. “Right, let’s do this.”

“You wish for my aid?”

“Think you can keep it focused on you while I kill it?”

“I believe so, but pray, how long do you think it will take to fell the beast?”

“Not long…but if that wool is as fine as your legends claim, it’d be a shame to ruin any of it. I’m gonna try to go for the legs, get him so he can’t attack us.”

“Then I shall endeavor to avoid getting head butted in the process. Are you prepared?”

She unsheathed her daggers in a fluid motion, tossing them into the air, and catching them deftly. “To prove you’re all utterly mad, of course.”

“Very well. …But on the chance it does turn out to be a primal, please do me the honor of a quick death. I shouldn’t like spending the rest of my days worshiping a karakul.”

She glared at him.

Haurchefant removed his shield from his back but kept his blade sheathed as he approached Downy Dunstan. Though as passive as its smaller kin, he was certain that the overgrown beast’s eyes tracked his every movement. He glanced over his shoulder and spotted the Warrior prowling closer in that semi-hidden state she’d achieved before. He nodded to her once and then began to inch around Downy Dunstan. As anticipated, the karakul slowly turned to keep him in sight. When he was certain its back was to her, Haurchefant drew his sword and struck the beast across the muzzle.

Now, his sword wasn’t anything special. It wasn’t enchanted or fortified like those of the highest members of the Holy See, but it was of the finest quality available to a Lord’s son and certainly more robust than that of a knight half his status. Yet it barely so much as scratched the surface of Dunstan’s vulnerable muzzle. It did, however, awaken the beast.

Downy Dunstan all but screeched at the offense and proceeded to thrust its head at its attacker and Haurchefant only just managed to throw himself out of the way. He recovered quickly and jabbed the karakul in the side. At that moment, the Warrior materialized behind Dunstan and stabbed both daggers into its hind legs simultaneously. In and out without resistance and she rolled to the side, scarcely avoiding the furious kick aimed in her direction.

The Warrior of Light cursed in surprise. “What’s this thing’s skin made out of?!” she cried. “That should’ve cut its hamstrings!”

Haurchefant started to respond but Dunstan clearly seemed to believe him the bigger target despite the wound she had just inflicted and lunged at him once more. He leaped aside nimbly and brought his sword down on the karaku’s head, momentarily stunning him. The Warrior raced in to deliver three more quick strikes to its back legs, all of which barely cut through the surface. Dunstan kicked out again and she back flipped away, landing in a crouch.

“What was that you were saying about Bahamut and Nidhogg?” she called.

“Oh, now you believe me?” he shouted back with a smile. Dunstan bellowed furiously lunged for Haurchefant’s chest. No time to dodge and he only just managed to lift his shield to block the blow. Pain zinged through his arm, no worse than a blow from a dragon’s tail, and he was knocked back several feet from the force. He steadied himself quickly and glared at the beast over his shield.

The necessary strength for such a feat did not escape the Warrior’s notice and she shouted, “What kind of sheep is this?!”

From the corner of his eye, he saw her make a quick series of motions with her hands and though the sky was as clear as it had been all day, a bolt of lightning shot down from the heavens and struck the beast square on the back. Dunstan shrieked and the smell of singed hair wafted through the air. It was enough to draw the karakul’s attention and ire to her and Haurchefant lunged forward quickly.

“Ah, ah, ah! No you don’t!” He struck out again and this time he got lucky, slicing a deeply into the tender skin of Dunstan’s cheek. That did it.

Eyes flashing, teeth bared, and bellowing at the top of its lungs, Downy Dunstan resumed its assault on the knight with vigor. Focused on his task, Haurchefant was able to successfully dodge nearly every strike and bite from the incensed karakul while the Warrior worked quickly to disable its hind legs. Similarly, he swung his sword at its front legs every available moment, thrusting his shield at the creature’s face simultaneously to block its headbutts. Approximately one minute after beginning their attack, the Warrior delivered the final strike, a fearsome stab to the neck delivered whilst standing on the beast’s shoulders, Downy Dunstan fell with a furious bleat and the legend was no more.

The Warrior’s anger, however, was in no hurry to follow.

“What in the name of every single god was that!?” she shrieked.

“That,” Haurchefant said, “was Downy Dunstan.”

Grumbling under her breath, the Warrior dropped her daggers into the snow and knelt beside the dead karakul. She fisted her hand in its wool and let out a tiny sound of surprise.

“It’s so soft…”

“It would seem the legend _was_ true,” he remarked.

“Why does that make me angry?”

He shrugged. “I believe such an answer will require some introspection on your part, for which you will have plenty of time on the trip back to Camp.”

She sighed and gave her daggers a quick cleaning before sheathing them once more. “Not quite. I ought to kill a few more just to be safe. Then I need to gather some mistletoe. _Then_ we can go back to camp.”

If Foleux had disliked having a single, common karakul tied to his back, then he utterly loathed the addition of Downy Dunstan. He didn’t try to throw the beast off but he was sure to displeasure through repeated disgruntled warbles which only worsened with the addition of each new karakul. She’d kill one, deem its wool acceptable, then dart off to kill another while Haurchefant tied it to his increasingly irate bird.

By the time all eight karakul were on his back, Foleux was glaring at them both. Haurchefant made a mental note to request extra gyshal greens for him tonight.

“Oh, dear me, I forgot to ask! Would you care to stay for supper?” he asked her as they walked up the hill towards Camp Dragonhead. “I am certain a single extra mouth would be no trouble, there is usually enough prepared for a few guests to eat as well as our residents.”

She cocked her head to the side. “I shouldn’t. Some of these deliveries need to be made tonight.”

“I understand. Some other time then, perhaps. By the way, you have yet to tell me the purpose of the wool,” he reminded her and, to his surprise, she ducked her head. Almost…shyly.

“W-well, actually…it’s part of a trade I’m making with a skilled weaver in the Toll. There’s this um…there’s this robe I’d like made. I’ve only ever seen a few of them but I described it well enough that they think they can make it for me. But most of the materials it needs are pretty expensive or a bit beyond my capabilities to acquire myself, so I proposed an exchange of sorts. A bounty of wool was one of several things I was asked to procure in exchange for the cost of the materials I could not procure on my own.”

Haurchefant nodded. “Indeed, that seems fair. And the mistletoe?”

“Potions ingredient…and silly traditions.”

“Oh, such as?”

“Er…never mind.”

Haurchefant grinned. Of course, he knew full well which tradition she was referring to. Many modern Starlight traditions had originated in Ishgard, after all. But he decided to keep that to himself…for now. Mayhap he could surprise her with it later. Even if he didn’t get a kiss, the look on her face alone would surely be worth the effort.

The mistletoe was collected as the sun grazed the tops of the western mountains. She scurried up the tree like a nutkin and dropped sprig after sprig into the bags he held open below. She deemed three sacks to be an adequate amount and rejoined him on the ground. The walls of the camp were clearly visible and he knew if his knights on duty were being particularly attentive then they would likely have spotted them…or at least her chocobo. By Halone, what had she _fed_ that bird?

“Haurchefant….” She said slowly as she finished tying the final bag to Bobby Corwen’s saddle. “Would you… The day is still young. What time are you expected to return?”

“I gave no exact indication, only asked that a plate be set aside for each of us at supper, just in case,” he replied. “Why?”

She fiddled with the straps in silence for a few moments. “It’s just…well. We’re close to the camp but if you don’t have to go back yet…you could always come with me. Y’know, to Revenant’s Toll.”

He blinked, taken aback by the offer.

“Since you’ve never really left Coerthas, and it’s not that far, and I know there are a few Domans and other Toll residents who’d love a chance to shake your hand…”

“ _My_ hand?”

She looked up at him. “You know, for all the supplies you’ve been sending? They’ve done everyone a world of good.”

“Oh. Well….” He looked over his shoulder at the walls of Camp Dragonhead. Ever a reassuring sight, the walls had ever been a promise that home and safety were in reach. He had never before looked at them with such indecision. The sooner he returned the better and yet…and yet…. He looked at his companion. Such an offer! Had he not wanted to visit the Toll for some time now? Had not he longed since his youth for an excuse, any excuse, to see what lied beyond the boundaries of Coerthas?

“It occurs to me, my lady, that I did declare my official reason for leaving today to serve as escort for an esteemed guest of House Fortemps.” Haurchefant told her nonchalantly and a knowing gleam entered her eye. “What sort of escort would I be if I did not see her safely to her destination?”

She grinned.

“There is just one small problem.” He gestured to Foleux who, upon realizing he had attention once more, let out yet another indignant cry. The poor noble war mount, reduced to being a bird of burden, hauling dead sheep around.

“Awww, you poor thing,” she crooned, walking towards the black chocobo. “You don’t like carrying these nasty sheep around, do you?”

Foleux kweh-ed and…if Haurchefant didn’t know any better, he would’ve sworn he saw Bobby Corwen roll his eyes. _My sentiments exactly,_ he thought.

The Warrior stroked Foleux’s neck feathers with both hands. “You look like a smart chocobo so why don’t we make a deal? If you come with us south a bit and you carry these karakuls like the good chocobo you are…” As she spoke, she reached her hand into one of the pouches on her belt and pulled out a single lumpy green leaf. The sight of it made Bobby Corwen shift closer. She held the leaf up for Foleux to see and smell, just out of reach unless he pushed against her, which he wouldn’t dare. She began waving it back and forth slowly in front of his face and Foleux’s head moved with it.

“Yeah, smell that? This is a fresh gyshal green, straight from Bentbranch Meadows, grown in some of the finest soils in all the realm, blessed by the Elementals…you probably don’t understand that last bit but believe you me, this is as good as it gets.” She offered the green to him and Foleux gobbled it up, immediately sniffing her fingers for more. “Yeeaaaah, good right?”

He warbled. Haurchefant shook his head slowly.

“There’s _plenty_ more where that came from…and all you need to do to have some is come south with us and be a good chocobo. Sound good?”

Foleux chirped loudly, jumping and flapping his wings like an untrained chick.

Smirking, she turned to Haurchefant, folded her arms, and cocked her hip, absolutely radiating smugness. He shook his head again.

Even with his size, Foleux would be unable to carry both him and Downy Dunstan, never mind the other seven sheep as well, and Bobby Corwen was far too small to carry two, so the knight had no choice but to walk, at least until they reached the Observatory. From there, they would rent a chocobo porter to carry them the rest of the way.

The Warrior finally unpacked the coat she had mentioned that morning—a long brown thing with fur trim around the hems and sleeves—and walked beside him through the snow. He considered protesting, a lady should not be forced to trudge through the snows such a distance, but she would probably tell him to take his protests and _shove ‘em._ She was a seasoned fighter, a skilled adventurer, and she would not appreciate attempts to…well, coddle her based on her gender and status.

He knew several knights of the male persuasion that had received a swift but severe trouncing for making that very mistake.

“Mayhap you could tell me of this fighting style you wielded now?” Haurchefant asked. “The one of Limsa Lominsa and Doma?”

“Oh, alright. It’s a bit complicated though if you don’t know much about either place so if I lose you anywhere, just say, right?”

He nodded and listened raptly as she told him of the rogues in the shadows of Limsa Lominsa that worked to keep the peace in a quiet yet condoned tradition of vigilantism. Thieves who wielded naught but knives (‘stabbers’, they called them; an apt name, he supposed) and dressed themselves in loose, casual clothing, no armor to speak of, and kept the status quo in a city where everyone was either an active pirate, former pirate, shared blood with a pirate, or was an immigrant. This group, formal enough to have a guild of their own, hidden among the docks, led by a man named Jacke who spoke in such broken, jargoned sentences that the chaos was practically poetic. It was from them that she learned the technique of near-invisibility that she’d displayed earlier, which she explained worked better in the dark or places of low visibility, and that it was not infallible by any means. He wondered if it would be of any use against dragons but she grimaced and shook her head.

Haurchefant waited outside the Observatory while she fetched two chocobo porters for them. Bobby Corwen and Foleux greeted the newest additions to their procession with friendly chirps, which were returned with earnest from the yellow chocobos. Haurchefant mounted the larger of the two and then they were off once more.

As they rode, she told him of Oboro and Tsubame, visitors from the Far East, and skilled ‘shinobi’, whatever that was, who had come seeking to exact vengeance on one who had turned traitor and joined the Empire. Somehow, she’d ended up involved but had jumped on the chance to be trained when it was offered. The fighting styles they utilized were similar enough that she was able to easily adapt, although the shinobi wielded primarily daggers and short swords as opposed to knives. They also utilized things like ‘ninjutsu’ and ‘mudras’ to command certain elements, conjure weapons, even speed their movements.

It was all so amazing, bordering on fantastical, that he could scarcely believe it was real. But he knew not a single word she’d spoken had been untrue, for why would she lie to him? That was not her way. Not with him.

He had often been told to not concern himself with the lives of people beyond their borders and to minimize his interactions with unbelievers lest they corrupt him and lead him astray. But he’d never seen outsiders as nonbelievers, rather simply those who had not been raised to revere Halone as he had. That did not make them any less deserving of kindness. The Warrior’s faith was a mystery to him, if she even had a patron deity, and she had received the same treatment as any outsider from his countrymen on her arrival. And then she had turned around and done Ishgard service after service. The Stone Vigil, Svara and her brood, the traitorous Inquisitor, the heretics, Midgardsormr, Shiva… _twice_ …and now the notorious Dunstan.

How many of her deeds had benefited from her knowledge of the world beyond their war? Ever since he’d been old enough to have an opinion on such things, he had strongly believed that Ishgard should not be separate from the rest of the Eorzean alliance. Even more so after the Calamity. They were the eldest civilization left on the continent, so many of their traditions yet lived on beyond their borders. What was wrong in letting the outside _in_?

The Warrior of Light was a prime example of why opening their walls would benefit Ishgard as a whole. Between himself and Ser Aymeric, _surely_ they could make his people see.

* * *

The guards at the gate greeted the Warrior with a casualness that Haurchefant would ordinarily assume indicated the person did not know they were speaking to someone of great import. But that was impossible. More likely, they simply didn’t care. They let her walk past without more than a cursory glance at her chocobo’s burdens but when Haurchefant tried to follow, they held out their arms to stop him. He sputtered in surprise and the Warrior turned around, narrowing her eyes at the scene unfolding.

The guards sized him up carefully, no doubt noting his armor and the official insignia on Foleux’s barding, and the one of the left cracked a smile that wasn’t entirely friendly.

“Well, would you look at that?” he remarked. “She brought back one o’ them snow elezen.”

“Did you desert?” the other asked him without accusation.

Haurchefant was taken aback by the question and the nonchalance with which it was posed. “I—no, certainly not!”

The guard shrugged. “Makes no difference. Mind you keep your sword sheathed and hands to yourself inside the Toll. We don’t tolerate theft or fightin’.”

“And best you remember: we alls is equals out here.” The right guard narrowed his eyes. “Ain’t no lords and ladies and common folk, just those what make their livin’ on the road and those with nowhere else to go. We don’t care what you are back in your citadel, while you’re here, you are what you prove yourself to be. Got it?”

Haurchefant glanced at the Warrior who had been watching the scene with her customary silence. Upon noticing his gaze, she nodded encouragingly. “I assure you, you have naught to fear from me,” he told them. “I am simply here to assist the Warrior of Light in her travels.”

This seemed to satisfy both guards, at least enough to let him pass. The Warrior motioned for him to follow her through the gates. She certainly had not been kidding about the status quo here. Yet the intensity of their words made him wonder if his countrymen, perhaps even some under his command, had caused difficulties in the past. He had little doubt Toll residents would have had troubles with Ishgardians whilst in Coerthas but he had no idea if their poor manners would continue when in lands not their own. Well. The guard said that one could only be what they proved themselves to be here…so he would simply have to prove himself a kind man.

Haurchefant knew Revenant’s Toll was a settlement that had begun as a hamlet in the ruins of a long-destroyed village and that its residents were slowly but surely building upon it…but what greeted him was small yet undeniably thriving town. Most of the buildings were made of stone but he could see stalls and tents comprised of wood, cloth, and metal. There seemed to be one main road that sloped downhill towards the aetheryte circle.

He saw people of every species, every race, milling about the streets. Roegadyn who would tower above him, lalafell so small they could be mistaken for elezen babes. Miqo’te with long, sleek tails that flicked and twitched as they spoke. Elezen with skin so dark they may as well have been stained by shadows and even a few Au Ra. Many of them were dressed in flashy armor that seemed to be as much for show as for protection. Some wore survival gear like the Warrior at present, some wore flowing robes and carried tomes or staffs at their waists. He saw a few brightly colored animals he could not name, shimmering and bouncing around their arcanist’s legs. Words overlapped around him like a cacophonous song and he wasn’t even sure all of them were in his language. It was almost overwhelming.

Yet he noticed quite of the wore simple attire made from simple materials. These people stood apart from the rest, conducting business off the main road, manning the stalls, carrying parcels this way and that, or simply watching people pass by. Almost all of them had fair complexions and black hair. They must be the Doman refugees. He paused to stare. He could not help it. Seeing visitors from other parts of Eorzea was one thing…but another continent entirely? As his eyes passed across a small group of them, he noticed a man staring intently at him from the shadows of a tall tower and quickly looked away, only to realize that the Warrior had stopped and was watching him as well.

“Do not stare too long,” she cautioned him softly. “The people of Doma are proud and their shinobi always at the ready to defend their honor.”

“Shinobi?” he repeated. “There are shinobi among these Domans?” When she had told him of these warriors on their ride here, he had assumed that many would have perished in the invasion and the survivors remained behind to defend what remained of their homeland and people. He had not expected they would flee with the rest.

She nodded. “Aye. He’s one of them.”

Haurchefant looked at the tower again but the man who’d been staring at him was gone without a trace. Foleux warbled softly. “Where—”

“Don’t worry, he was simply judging you. He won’t hurt you unless you prove to be a threat. The shinobi, all the Domans, really, are staunch defenders of the Toll, even the Scions. Once they mark you as a man of House Fortemps, I reckon they’d protect you from a dragon if they had to.”

“Really?” he asked, surprised.

She gave him a small smile. “Domans benefit as much as the rest from the supplies you send and they do not forget who has aided them.”

“I see…” he murmured, glancing at the closest group of Domans. Yet another reason their continued support to the Toll would prove beneficial to Ishgard.

The Warrior led him off the main road into an area filled with simple market stalls covered by tarps. It was nothing like the Jeweled Crozier where the wares were mostly everyday items like food, clothing, basic materials, weapons, and toys, all of which were strictly Ishgardian in nature. The vendors of the Toll sold all of those, too, but in such a wide variety that Haurchefant could not help but stare. Exotic dishes and ingredients, vibrant dyes, elegant fabrics and shining jewels every color of the rainbow and beyond, housing items in a variety of styles, books and tomes both faded and new, clothes in styles he had never seen, bits and bobs and things he couldn’t name. Everywhere he looked, something new awaited him.

It wasn’t even half the size of the Crozier and yet twice as plentiful. Just what had his people been missing?

She stopped at a stall midway down the second aisle and the vendor, a fresh-faced highlander with a shock of pink hair, greeted her with a smile even brighter than her air. “Afternoon, love!” she greeted. “You got that sinew?”

The Warrior smiled and went to fetch the parcels from the saddlebag she’d stored them in. The vendor’s azure eyes settled on Haurchefant appraisingly. “Well hello there. Come to buy?”

Haurchefant shook his head. “No, madam, but thank you. I’m merely accompanying the lady.”

“Well ain’t you sweet,” she crooned and gave him another look up and down. “That’s some fine armor you’ve got on you. Them knights that come with shipments every now and then don’t shine near half as bright as you do.”

“It’s all a matter of care, madam.”

She gave him a knowing smile. “You can care for your armor all day long but poor quality ain’t never gonna match up to fine, carefully made gear and that, that right there, is some fine work. Bit more than an average knight could afford.”

Well, she’d certainly seen through him rather quickly. He had hoped to retain some level of anonymity while here, and he had told the Warrior as much ere they arrived. Him coming here had been a risky venture and it would not do for word to get around that he had. Thankfully, the Warrior presented the vendor the sinew then and pulled her attention to their transaction.

The highlander woman inspected the materials quickly, proving how much faith she placed in the Warrior to bring her fine stock, and nodded. “A fine mix of reasonable quality. Thank you kindly, love.”

The Warrior accepted her payment with smile and a nod and lead their small procession away from the booth. Haurchefant decided to remove the shield from his back and carefully hooked it to Foleux’s saddle underneath one of the dead karakuls for cover. He looked around for his companion once he was finished and spotted her at another stall, greeting a lalafellin vendor with a selection of potions and elixirs in bottles of every shape and size across his table. To him she gave the vampire weed and mistletoe and he inspected the contents with a sharper eye than the highlander had. The Warrior waited patiently for him to finish then accepted her payment, a sack of gil and a wooden half-crate full of bottles of a magenta potion.

He was amazed by her ability to weave among the bustling crowds and interact with each person she’d been employed by without saying more than a handful of words. It seemed his earlier assumptions had been correct: it was the presence of other people that stilled her voice. It was a shame yet he could not help but feel honored that she had deemed him worthy of speaking for. He could not be certain, but he did not think he had ever heard speak to Alphinaud even half as much as she had spoken with him today alone.

Content to leave her to her business, he allowed the sounds and smells of the Toll to wash over him. Even at its busiest, Ishgard retained a perpetual solemnity and quiet about it. At its worst, it felt like church service had not been dismissed. At best, well, one was inside the Forgotten Knight. This place had not the size, beauty, or grandeur to measure up to his city in any way but it was so _alive._ Emmanellain would love it here—

A hand touched his arm gently and Haurchefant turned to see the Warrior’s smiling face. “A friend of mine has agreed to sheer and butcher the karakuls.” He looked over her shoulder at the middle-aged miqo’te in an apron waiting near an empty stall. The man lifted a hand in greeting. “I told him that you’d take everything but the innards.”

“That is certainly kind—wait. You’re not having to pay, are you?” he fretted. She had gifted the meat to his people, it hardly seemed fair she should have to pay to do something that one of them could easily do themselves.

She shook her head. “We’re trading. Tomorrow I will bring him gigantoad legs in exchange.”

A rueful smile tugged at his lips. “The life of an adventurer is never dull.”

“We like it that way,” she assured him.

Her friend, J’nahk, lead them to one of the stone buildings near the market. He asked them to leave their chocobos outside and helped them carry the karakuls in, exclaiming rather loudly when he realized Downy Dunstan was but a single karakul. He demanded to know how they’d felled such a beast when the normal ones were bad enough and the Warrior groaned. The air inside J’nahk’s shop was ripe with something Haurchefant could not place, didn’t quite like, but was able to ignore. He bade them leave the karakuls with him and return in a bell or so.

Foleux was beyond relieved to be free of his foul-smelling, demonic burden, stretching his neck into the air and fluttering his wings. A few passerbys paused to look at him and Haurchefant gave him a reprimanding tug on the reins.

“Now, behave,” he scolded him. “You are representing all of Ishgard and I do not have to allow you the promised gyshal greens.” And suddenly the black chocobo was the stillest in the realm. Bobby Corwen let out a few chirps that sounded distinctly amused.

“I do owe him,” the Warrior murmured, almost to herself, and lead them back into the throng of stalls. But she did not stop to speak with any of the vendors, continuing back to the main road and down the hill. Haurchefant and the chocobos followed behind dutifully.

The deeper into the Toll he went, the more Haurchefant became aware of the eyes on him. He was a new face here, after all, and he could hardly fault them when he was wont to do the same whenever someone new arrived at Dragonhead. He bid the Warrior wait a moment when they reached the aetheryte and extended his hand toward the crystal. He knew some of his knights would have already done this even without permission beforehand, not that they really needed it in his opinion, but the Holy See liked to keep record of who had the ability to teleport beyond Coerthas.

He had done this only a few times in his life, all of which were in Coerthas, but he remembered the method. Simply reach out with one’s own aether and…

Warmth tingled in his fingers as light flowed between them and the aetheryte and he smiled. Regardless of whether or not he informed the Holy See what he’d done—which, he should, he really should, just as he really should _not_ have come—now he would forever have a link to the world outside, even if it was only by his aether.

When the process was complete, Haurchefant looked around for the Warrior. She stood several yalms away, conversing with a woman wearing the typical uniform of a chocobo porter handler. The woman was nodding to whatever the Warrior was saying and after a moment, she disappeared into the small stable where the porters were kept. The Warrior beckoned them over.

It was a simple exchange: a handful of gil and the promise that she could inspect Foleux’s wings for a small basket of the fresh greens he’d been promised. Haurchefant saw no reason to deny the request and allowed the woman her examination, keeping a reassuring hand on Foleux’s neck the whole time, though he suspected he need not have bothered. A woman so attuned with chocobos would never alarm Foleux. She seemed rather fascinated with her findings, mumbling something about sturdier and longer feathers.

The Warrior listened, bemused, so Haurchefant explained, “Foleux can fly.” Her eyes flipped wide in awe. “All of our black chocobos can by nature. They were bred that way.”

“That they were,” the woman agreed. “This is magnificent.”

The Warrior asked permission to leave their chocobos at the stable for a moment and the woman agreed. Then she took Haurchefant by the hand, murmured, “Come,” and lead him towards the nearby gate. They ascend a small staircase near the gate and arrive on a platform overlooking the lands to the southeast. He sucks in a sharp breath at the sight of the vast wasteland, all rock and crystal, and water. Beyond the rocks, rising high into the sky, was a shining blue tower that seemed to be made entirely of crystal. To his right, he could see the towering ruins of the fallen Garlean warship and the remains of Midgardsormr coiled around it.

“There are places like this across Eorzea where crystals grow rampant…but no place was so utterly overtaken like Mor Dhona. It goes on for malms and malms. Sometimes the aether here is so thick that you can see it in the air around you.”

Haurchefant shook his head slowly. “It’s…eerie and yet…beautiful.”

“And full of secrets,” she said with far too much certainty for his liking. “Beyond that ridge is an area of land full of allagan relics. Every day they uncover something new. Tomes, machines, stone, giant towers…people,” she added with a slight grimace. He decided not to ask. “Without the Calamity destroying the land, such things may never have been unearthed. The philosophical types probably love that.”

Haurchefant laughed ruefully. There was indeed something poetic about it.

“They say the things they’re finding could propel our technology ahead, maybe enough to surpass Garlemand one day.”

His eyes left the landscape and settled on her face, illuminated by the late afternoon sun reflecting off the crystal. His throat suddenly felt dry and he swallowed quickly. “Would such a thing not beneficial?”

She shook her head lightly. “Allag became insatiable in their quest for knowledge. They did unspeakable things. That there could be even worse still waiting to be uncovered sickens me.”

“Yet could there also not be great good waiting as well? Methods of healing, communication, spells, lost histories…?”

“Of course.”

“Then is it not worth the risk?”

For a moment, a haunted look passed across her face and he wondered what she had been through, what she had seen. She had ever been an unshakable force of nature, throwing herself headfirst into conflicts with men, beast, and primal with nary a concern for her wellbeing. What could possibly have been left behind by Allag to have disturbed her so?

He decided he did not want to know and licked his lips. “Ishgard has not had a significant advancement in one thousand years that did not in some way pertain to war,” he told her. “We stagnated long ago and have not the resources to progress, nor will we ever so long as the dragons threaten us. If Allagan secrets are finally being unearthed, they could be what we need to advance once more. To move past our limitations, perhaps even open ourselves to the world once more. My people have done unspeakable things, too, and yet…”

The Warrior smiled sadly. “You know it’s all thousands and thousands of years old, right?” she added softly. “Older than your war with the dragons by millennia. Do you truly think the tools for your nation’s liberation could be buried in the past?”

Haurchefant inhaled through his nose as he contemplated her words. There was something in her tone at the end that spoke of deeper knowledge. Truthfully, he had long harbored the belief that there was some truth to the dragons’ side of the story, though he had never been able to speak such thoughts aloud for fear of receiving accusations of heresy. He was not a heretic, nor would he ever be, but he knew full well that there were always two sides to a story and that the truth usually lied somewhere therein. Unless, of course, one side was a lie and Ishgard firmly believed that the dravanians’ was. Though there was a possibility that it was _theirs_ that…

He never allowed himself to think beyond that point for surely that was what started one down the path of heresy.

“I think there are a great many things that the past has to offer us and that we should seek them out if given the opportunity,” he finally answered. “So long as we partake in their successes and learn from their mistakes, then the people of old…their lives will never have been for naught. Tis folly for we are ever forgetful but we must try.”

They stood in silence, listening to Revenant’s Toll behind them and staring at Mor Dhona before them. She had not yet let go of his hand.

“Thank you,” he said softly, “for allowing me to accompany you. For bringing me here, showing me this, it…”

He did not look at her but he knew she was smiling when she replied, “Thank you for coming with me.”

“I will forever be in your debt.”

She shook her head but said no more on the subject.

* * *

 

The end of his day as an adventurer came far sooner than Haurchefant would have liked.

The bells tolled out the hour and they returned to J’nahk who helped him load the parcels of fresh mutton into Foleux’s saddlebags and the bags of wool into Bobby Corwen’s. Out of curiosity, Haurchefant enquired as to which parcels held the mutton from the largest karakul, but J’nahk only shrugged. And thus, Downy Dunstan, plague of the highlands, he who had survived the Calamity and consorted with elder dragons, in the end was utterly indistinguishable from its lesser counterparts. Funny how life worked.

Sunset was fast approaching and there was no chance he would make it back to Dragonhead before the temperatures dipped dangerously. Teleporting was his only option, though he planned to explain his unusual manner of arrival with the excuse that he had seen the Warrior to the edge of Coerthas. With luck, no one in Ishgard would ever be any the wiser to the brief departure of one of its commanders.

…Or he could right now be missing the unholy vengeance of Downy Dunstan’s brethren upon his camp and would return to naught but flames, crumbled stone, and knights with crushed armor covered in fleece whilst the perpetrators marched for Dravania to join the dragons in their crusade against the Holy See.

Probably not but you never knew with karakuls.

Still, it was best he did not linger.

Yet he was reluctant to leave. Duty compelled him to return posthaste but desire bid him linger just a while longer. For when would he ever have such an opportunity again? He had an obligation to his command, one that could not be set aside simply because he had been invited to go gallivanting across the realm. The dragons would not pause in their crusade on his account. He couldn’t gamble the safety of his people in such a way. Not only was it unfair and downright irresponsible, he had spent his life doing all he could to prove himself worthy of the honor of House Fortemps. Though he would never share its name, he would forever be of its bloodline and he would never disgrace it.

A knight lived to serve and serve he would. He glanced at the Warrior of Light. At least he could count on one such as her to understand.

“Will you be alright?” she asked after J’nahk departed. “It’s at least a full bell’s ride to the border…”

“I do believe I shall be making the journey via the aether,” Haurchefant replied. “I see no point in braving the snows and the cold when this way is much simpler.”

She nodded and patted Foleux’s neck in farewell before giving Haurchefant a contrite smile. “I kept you far too long.”

He shook his head. “Not at all, my dear. I have enjoyed our time together immensely and though such excursions must be few and far between, you are ever welcome in Camp Dragonhead. I hope your next visit is sooner rather than later, for was I not promised a certain dish from the Bismarck?”

“If I recall, you only asked. I never promised.”

“Oh, but surely you are not so _cruel_ as to taunt me with tales of a dish so _fine_ its makers cannot keep up with the demands for it…and then leave me wanting?” He was laying it on thick and he knew it but these were desperate times.

“Must you always be so overdramatic?”

“My dear, I am afraid I have no idea what you mean. Such accusations!” She pinched the bridge of her nose between her thumb and forefinger and he decided to dial it back. “Though, if you recall, I did also offer to compensate you for bringing it to me.”

She glanced at him and smiled. “I also recall you asking me to instruct your knights in the arts of karakul slaying.”

“Indeed…and should you do both on the same day then I could enjoy both a meal and watching a lesson from you. I daresay that may prove nearly as enjoyable as today.”

“You’re insufferable,” she told him matter-of-factly. “I cannot promise when I’ll be able to return to Coerthas but I will soon…with the apple dish.”

“Splendid!” he cried, raising his arms in delight. “With that, I do believe my work here is done. By your leave, I shall take mine now, my dear.”

The Warrior of Light grinned broadly and lightly punched his arm. “Go on, get out of here.”

He nodded once. “Time to see if I remember how to do this. Come, Foleux.” The chocobo chirped softly as he took hold of his reins securely. He gave the Warrior one last smile. “Fare you well, my dear.”

“And you,” she replied.

Haurchefant looked around at Revenant’s Toll. It was such a small place and yet it held such an important purpose. He had helped build this place, albeit indirectly, and seeing the good that his people had done for the outside world gave him a sense of pride. His eyes took in the buildings, the market, the people, and nodded once. Closing his eyes, he reached inside himself to the place where his aether flowed and connected him to the world…and thought of Camp Dragonhead, of the aetheryte shining tall, the walls, the cobblestone, the people…

A rush of tingling warmth slept over him and he opened his eyes for one final look at her smiling face and then the world melted away.

**Author's Note:**

> my friends are enablers so i'll probably be posting more stories in this same lil 'verse sooner or later
> 
> pls comment it validates me


End file.


> Typical notes apply here: all of my FFXIV fics operate under the assumption that characters are aging in real time. Therefore, the twins are at least 19/20 by the events of Stormblood.

Urianger is six years old when he first hears of Nymeia’s mark.

As much as he tries to avoid the other children on the island, he occasionally finds himself surrounded by his peers. This is one such time. A young elezen boy, a few years Urianger’s senior, holds out his ankle and points to the dark spot, a purple-ish odd-shaped bruise on his ankle. “My mother says my soulmate has this same mark, and when we meet, we’ll feel connected somehow.”

“That sounds like nonsense.” A miqo’te girl protests.

“Everyone has one. You’re either born with it, or it shows up when your soulmate is born.”

“What do they look like?” She inquires further, and Urianger pretends not to be interested in the conversation.

“I dunno, like a spot. You’d know it if you saw it.”

The girl thinks for a moment before rolling up her sleeve, showing off a raised red patch on her upper arm, just above her elbow, shaped almost like a star. “Like this?”

“Yeah, I think so!”

He scans himself as soon as he arrives home, checking for any indication of a mark on his own skin, only to find nothing. When Urianger asks his mother about her mark, she frowns.

*

He’s eight when he gives up hope.

“My sweet son,” his mother rustles the hair atop Urianger’s young head as she consoles him. “‘Tis possible your soulmate may yet be revealed in time.”

Urianger sniffles, “The text reads that a child rarely reaches eight summers ‘fore receiving Nymeia’s mark.”

She smiles sadly, “Perhaps Nymeia simply has grander plans for us Augurelts.”

Urianger scoffs. She may very well be content existing in this world without a soulmate, but he would not be. Urianger imagines the epic romances in the novels he reads, and can’t fathom a future in which he is entirely alone.

Moenbryda is alone too, not only because her skin is unmarked, but also because most of their peers find her abrasive and overwhelming. She annoys him at first, constantly asking him questions or trying to read over his shoulder, but his mother insists he gives her a chance. When he sits on the edge of a dock with his feet dangling over the edge, Moenbryda next to him begging him to read her another passage from a book she can’t read on her own, he thinks loneliness might not be too terrible of a fate.

*

He’s twelve when everything changes. Urianger and Moenbryda have snuck into the library yet again, settled into their makeshift nook on the floor between the stacks. The summer heat is sweltering, but the two of them are comfortable enough with one another that they’re hardly shy about baring skin (though that doesn’t stop a blush from creeping upon Urianger’s cheeks whenever he glances at her in nothing but her underclothes).

While he’s especially engrossed in his book, Moenbryda gasps. Urianger ignores her the first time, but she grabs the book from his hands and slams it shut, capturing his attention. “Pray tell the meaning of-”

“Your _arm_!”

His breath hitches when he spots it, tendrils of white starting at his wrist and branching out into swirls on the inside of his left forearm. Unsure of what to think, he looks to Moenbryda for an explanation, or perhaps a hint on how he should be feeling, but she seems as confused as he is. If not a bit disappointed. “This development, while unexpected, changes nothing.”

“Doesn’t it, though?” Moenbryda pouts. Urianger isn’t sure what the tightness in his chest is, but he knows her expression is the cause of it.

*

He’s fifteen when he decides the Nymeia has made some kind of mistake. Moenbryda tries to convince him otherwise.

“But what if you meet them? I’ve heard the pain is unbearable-”

“‘Tis unlikely, given that mine _soulmate_ ,” he says the word with a hint of disdain, “is naught more than three summers in age. At least not in the near future.” He shrugs. “Nevertheless, mine feelings for thee art stronger than any of Nymeia’s threads.”

“You say that now.” Moenbryda seems unconvinced, her eyes watery.

He answers her question with a nervous kiss, their first. When he pulls away, she stares at him as if she’s gauging his sincerity. As a response, Urianger kisses her again with more confidence and assurance, wrapping his arm around her waist and pulling her closer, on the tips of his toes trying to match her height and failing miserably.

*

  
He’s sixteen when his mother falls ill. The platitudes of her acquaintances fall on deaf ears. For every “She was so young, how tragic,” and “If there’s anything we can do,” Urianger finds himself resenting mankind more and more.

Moenbryda does none of these things and instead helps him study for his entrance exam.

The proctor says something unsavory about his mother while inquiring if Urianger shares her gift of foresight and Urianger doesn’t hold back his initial response. He doesn’t make it into the Studium that year.

_“She wasted her potential as a scholar on a meaningless romance. How can I be so sure you will not do the same?”_

*

He’s eighteen when he meets Louisoix for the first time in person. In Urianger’s second year of study, Moenbryda introduces them with a grin on her face. She insists she met Louisoix by chance, but Urianger knows she likely sought him out specifically to bring the two of them together.

Urianger is immediately swayed by his words of action, defense of Eorzea, and practical application of the knowledge they’ve been gathering in Sharlayan for centuries. Louisoix helps him understand his increasingly disturbing visions of an upcoming Calamity, something he swears that they can avoid, together.

He forgets all about the mark on his wrist, easily hidden from curious eyes by his regular robes.

*

He’s twenty-one when he stands in Louisoix’s personal study, Moenbryda by his side. As Urianger works towards becoming an Archon, he spends more and more time there. Louisoix had a personal collection of tomes, unlike anything Urianger had ever seen before.

But it’s the first time he’s been joined by guests. Louisoix seems surprised by the intrusion as well, quickly apologizing. “Pray ignore my son…”

“Father,” Fourchenault Leveilleur interrupts, “You cannot expect me to distribute this literature-”

Urianger’s arm tingles unpleasantly, and he tries not to wince. He hears other voices in the hallway, kids, and a feeling of dread immediately washes over him.

Louisoix’s eyes light up when he realizes his grandchildren are present as well. If it weren’t for the other discomfort, Urianger would feel awkward for encroaching on this domestic interaction.

Louisoix ignores his son and simply asks the two aspiring Archons whether or not they’ve been properly introduced to his grandchildren. Urianger can’t think of an excuse to leave quickly enough before the boy begins his introduction, “My name is Alphinaud and this is my sister, Alisaie.”

Urianger makes the decision to ignore the discomfort radiating from his mark and tries to fake a smile. The boy, Alphinaud, immediately begins to charm Moenbryda, while Alisaie remains silent.

“Sister, don’t be rude.” Alphinaud chides, and Alisaie scrunches her nose in displeasure before making eye contact with the two unfamiliar adults in the room. Urianger inhales sharply as his eyes meet hers, as does she, both clutching their arms at the sudden pain, and the room grows quiet with the sudden realization of what exactly has happened.

It was a somewhat common knowledge that sometimes soulmates experience a painful pull between their marks when they are nearby. At least until their aether is imprinted upon each other permanently. Words could not have prepared him for how strange and excruciating the sensation truly is.

Urianger excuses himself, quickly trying to escape both the pain and the uncomfortable silence. Moenbryda follows, tugging on the back of Urianger’s robe and pulling him around to face her.

“So… Fourchenault’s daughter then.”

Urianger wants to tell her that nothing will change, that they can continue on pretending this never happened, but he can’t lie to her. The detonation timer of their relationship has started counting down, and they are both painfully aware of it. He nods wordlessly.

Days later, he offers his resignation. Louisoix not only rejects his offer, but introduces him to his order: a La Noscean street urchin, an Ala Mhigan pugilist, a miqo’te conjurer from the colony, and a dunesfolk thaumaturge Urianger had studied under at the Studium.

Urianger and Moenbryda both accept, and the Leveilleur patriarchs, scholars capable of recognizing Urianger’s talent first and foremost, conveniently never mention the mark again.

*

He’s twenty-three, nearly twenty-four when Alphinaud and Alisaie become the youngest students to ever enter the Studium. Louisoix officially announces his intent to defect to Eorzea, bringing the best and brightest of the Archons alongside him.

Louisoix offers his Circle of Knowing secret magic to extend their youth, allowing them to remain their age forever as of 1572 and Urianger suspects that Louisoix’s reasoning extends beyond allowing Y’shtola and Thancred to maintain their vanity, but he never asks.

Urianger leaves Moenbryda behind on Louisoix’s insistence. She protests, not with him, but with Louisoix. Urianger is secretly pleased that she’ll be kept far away from danger. Especially considering her affinity for making trouble when she can’t find any.

He watches Louisoix’s goodbyes. Alisaie sobs and begs her grandfather to stay, in contrast to Fourchenault and Alphinaud who look both stoic and utterly defeated. Urianger’s heart wants nothing more for Louisoix to remain in Sharlayan and let the rest of them handle the upcoming Calamity. Fortunately, his mind is more powerful.

Urianger’s specific task is to re-arm the Grand Companies in preparation for the upcoming conflict, but his secretive nature leads to an abundance of strange rumors. Not only is it widely believed that he’s over 15,000 years old, but also that he somehow caused the Sixth Umbral Era. In everyone’s defense, he never actively protests the accusations.

If anything, he finds it sort of flattering. He hopes someone mentions it to Moenbryda.

Urianger becomes something of a scapegoat for the realm, redirecting all of the Empire’s enmity towards himself. Incidentally, he happens upon (is pursued by) an adventurer with a nearly identical mark to his own.

“I don’t suppose you’re secretly eleven years old.” The adventurer suggests, prompted by Urianger’s intent staring at their exposed right forearm. Urianger rolls up his sleeve, revealing his mark for the second time in his life. The adventurer raises their brow at the near-perfect mirror image.

“Nay, but I suspect I know the keeper of thy match,” Urianger recalls the popularly held assumption that twins often share nearly identical marks. The adventurer smirks and pulls up their shirt, showing off a big red spot on their chest.

“Happen to recognize this one?”

Urianger forgets the conversation, and the adventurer, when it all ends. Louisoix sacrifices himself to save them all and Urianger is helpless to do anything about it.

As promised, Urianger keeps Krile, and by extension, the Leveilleur twins, informed as the entire battle unfolds. But when all is said and done, it is to the two young prodigies that he writes his condolences.

_“On the broken fields of Carteneau, did my dearest mentor—thy beloved grandsire—become as light and embark upon his final journey.”_

*

While the rest of the Archons immediately begin helping rebuild, Urianger finds himself drawn back to Sharlayan. Fourchenault himself calls Urianger to his side under the pretense of helping him get Louisoix’s affairs in order. Though when Urianger arrives, he can tell his mentor’s son is desperately seeking for Urianger to make sense of the events at Carteneau, no less devastated by Louisoix’s death than Alphinaud and Alisaie are.

For a while, Urianger is able to keep his distance from the twins, wanting to spare twelve-year-old Alisaie the additional pain and confusion, but Alphinaud renders that attempt futile within days.

Before returning to Sharlayan, Urianger suspected Fourchenault to be responsible for the twins’ early admittance into the Studium. After spending numerous hours with the curious boy, however, he realizes Alphinaud is one of the most gifted children alive, if not of all time. Urianger wonders if Alisaie shares his intelligence, though Alphinaud insists her brilliance pales in comparison to his own.

He speaks, at most, a few sentences with Alisaie. No matter how intelligent or articulate Alisaie may be, she’s still a child, and the intended mechanism of the mark (to bring them together) does precisely the opposite, forcing Urianger to keep his distance.

Not to mention, he finds himself in Moenbryda’s bed on more than one occasion, and the unfortunate reality that they are not meant to last, and that Alisaie is the cause, is enough to make him resent the girl beyond reason.

When he finally decides to return to Eorzea, more than a year after returning to Sharlayan, he says goodbye to Moenbryda yet again and curses Menphina for allowing him to love someone that’s not his soulmate.

*

Year 5 of the Seventh Astral Era, Alphinaud and Alisaie arrive in Eorzea as adults, disagreement driving them apart as soon as they come.

While Alphinaud immediately starts working alongside the Antecedent, Alisaie seemingly disappears altogether.

That is, until Urianger finds himself woken up in the middle of the night by someone pounding on his door. He expects Thancred, or perhaps the Warrior of Light, but instead finds Alisaie Leveilleur, determination clear on her face.

She wastes no time with pleasantries, “I’ve been observing a waveform pattern of aether emanating from the cavern beneath Castrum Occidens.”

Urianger holds open his door, inviting her into his room. She smiles politely and steps past him, dropping a large notebook on his small desk and flipping it open to a page of her notes.

Urianger recognizes the pattern immediately, it’s the same pattern his colleagues have observed surrounding Ifrit, Titan, and Garuda’s re-emergence. He shares as much, and she nods.

“And leading up to the Calamity,” she adds. “I suspect either the Garleans are to blame, or the primal Bahamut itself.” Before he can comment, she continues. “Either way, I hoped you might be able to convince the Warrior of Light to assist me in my further research of this phenomenon. Namely, identifying the source of this aetheric disturbance and vanquishing it.”

Urianger raises his eyebrow. “My lady, thine research ‘tis undoubtedly impressive given thy limited resources,” He admits. “That said, I cannot in good conscience endorse putting thee in harm's way, with or without the Warrior of Light’s protection on thy expedition.”

“Urianger.” She holds his gaze, frustration and desperation evident in her eyes. “If Bahamut stirs, my grandfather’s sacrifice may have been for naught. I cannot allow this to happen. Not so long as I can prevent it.” Urianger grasps at his mark absent-mindedly, subconsciously hoping that contact might provide him temporary relief from his discomfort. She doesn’t let the gesture go unnoticed, sighing in annoyance. “I am coming to you, not as your _soulmate_ ,” she says the word with familiar disdain, “but as someone who loved Louisoix and his vision for this realm.”

Urianger wavers, “I shall speak with the Antecedent anon.”

“Then I shall await the adventurer in Wineport.” She collects her notes and leaves without another word, leaving Urianger, stunned by her bluntness, in her wake.

She knocks on his door in the middle of the night once more, shortly after she and the Warrior of Light uncovered the secrets buried deep beneath their feet. This time, however, she lacks the direction that guided her in their last meeting. Instead, she seems distraught.

“What ails you, my lady?”

Alisaie’s lip quivers and her eyes begin brimming with tears. “I don’t-” she hiccups, “I’m not sure what _exactly_ -” She presses her face into his chest, dissolving into sobs. He wraps his arms around her back and lets her cry, unsure of what else to do. Another unfamiliar feeling, relief, slowly replaces the ache in his arm. A muscle extended beyond its limits finally relaxing.

His mark finally ceases its endless torrent of torture, replaced by the feeling of completeness.

Alisaie pulls away, her eyes and cheeks red, but she seems noticeably calmer. “That was undignified of me.” She wipes away the residual tears, chuckling to herself. “Something just felt off, and this seemed like the right thing to do.”

Urianger suspects the thought was more of a suggestion than a spontaneous idea but keeps the observation to himself. “Perhaps the events that took place amongst the coils hath affected thee in ways heretofore unknown.”

“Perhaps.” She responds, knowingly, a faint smile on her lips. “Thank you.”

She bites her lip and nods, unprompted, before leaving again, looking back once before disappearing out of sight.

She officially moves into the Sands two days later.

*

The Scions relocate to Mor Dhona, and Alisaie remains behind, insisting she’s hardly present enough to justify moving. Minfilia confesses to Urianger that she’s pleased someone would be keeping Urianger company, but that she’s concerned a rift between the two twins is to blame for Alisaie’s reluctance. Minfilia looks to Urianger for his theory on the matter, but he feigns ignorance.

Alisaie finds more and more excuses to spend her time with Urianger as she continues to ignore the other Scions. She remains quite elusive to Urianger, much less prone to talking about herself (or bragging about her accomplishments) than Alphinaud had been. He hadn’t even known she was an arcanist until she mentions in passing that she’s always been skilled with magic but is utterly bored with the summoning of carbuncles. Urianger shows her his amber carbuncle, and for a brief period of time, she’s obsessing for days attempting to recreate it. She doesn’t succeed, but he notices there’s something different about her topaz carbuncle nonetheless.

She is more talented than she lets on.

The students of Baldesion vanish without a trace, and Ishgardian heretics threaten to summon the primal Shiva and cover up their activities by destroying the aetheryte that would grant the Scions access to their location.

Aetheryte technology is, well, Moenbryda’s primary area of expertise and as much as he hates to admit it, Urianger knows he’s out of his depth.

He invites her, and unintentionally her dreadfully short skirt, to the Rising Stones. She taunts him in front of everyone, the Warrior of Light included, and not only finds the missing aetheryte but also discovers another purpose for white auracite: destroying Ascians for good.

There’s stunned silence in the Solar of the Rising Stones as he interrupts the Scions discussing Moenbryda’s…

He can’t even think the words.

He’s somewhat relieved to hear that she forgave Louisoix for leaving her behind, in the end. Of all of the guilt he’s harbored on her behalf, not fighting to bring her to Eorzea is a large percentage of it.

Her lack of mark suddenly makes sense to him. One of the many reasons a person might be born without a mark, it is speculated, is because the person dies too young to meet their soulmate. Or, their soulmate is closer in age to their next incarnation than their current one. By dying young, theoretically, she might be finally united with her true soulmate.

That’s what everyone told him after his mother passed, at least. Though she was 4 years older than Moenbryda.

He thinks the entire theory is utterly unfounded, as no one else in the world, neither past nor future, could ever love her as much as Urianger himself did.

Thancred, in a rare moment of empathy, shows Urianger his faded mark. “She died during the Calamity, I think. I have no memory of her.”

Urianger sadly shakes his head, “Despite everything, Moenbryda and I shared not Nymeia’s mark.”

“My apologies, I assumed-”

Urianger, possibly out of his own emotional numbness, rolls up his sleeve while Thancred is speaking, stunning him into silence.

“Is that…” Thancred grips Urianger’s wrist to get a closer look. “I recognize this.”

Urianger wonders if he’s seen Alisaie’s mark.

“Has the Warrior of Light shown you theirs?” Thancred follows up, and Urianger shakes his head. “The one that looks like this, at least. I believe the other is shared by our ally in Ishgard.”

“Nay, the match to this mark is most certainly not our adventurer friend. Though perhaps our marks are kindred in another manner.”

“Ah, right, this is your left arm.” Thancred looks as if he might say something else, but Urianger shakes his head.

“If it makes no difference to thee, perhaps we discontinue this conversation.” Urianger doesn’t mean to snap at Thancred, who he does consider to be a friend, but the last thing he wants to think about is his mark, and who it does not belong to.

*

Despite the comfortable friendship that had just begun to develop between the two of them, Urianger distances himself from Alisaie after Moenbryda’s death. When it’s clear he’s not interested in returning her small talk, she leaves again without a word.

He learns about the First, a world threatened by overwhelming Light, and knows that in Hydaelyn’s weakness, those among them with the Echo lack their connection to the Mothercrystal. He will have to be creative to save them all.

When the Scions are framed for murdering the Sultana, Alphinaud mentions that Alisaie orchestrated their escape. Urianger’s influence was exacted that evening as well, but in ways that would not play out for quite a time yet.

Alphinaud, the Warrior of Light, and Tataru flee to Ishgard. The thought of the Warrior of Light, torn between both soulmates in Camp Dragonhead, is bitterly amusing to Urianger. He can relate, in a way. The white, swirling vines that bind both of their souls to one of the Leveilleur twins are accompanied only by cruel irony.

Elidibus introduces him to the Warriors of Darkness. It’s a welcome distraction from both the emotional void left by Moenbryda’s passing and the aetheric void left by Alisaie’s departure.

Urianger’s perceptive enough to notice that Alisaie is nearby when she spies on him, even though the painful physical link between them has dissipated. He can hardly blame her for the suspicion, his actions must look damning from an outside perspective. Sometimes, they look damning from an inside perspective, too.

He hears she’s been fatally wounded and checks his mark to verify, but it’s as bold and visible as ever. He decides not to share this information with the group. He hopes Alisaie will cut her losses and count herself lucky for surviving at all.

Not that she’d ever do that.

The Dragonsong War comes to an end. Nidhogg perishes.

He hears Haurchefant dies defending the Warrior of Light and Urianger offers his condolences. He wonders why Haurchefant shared a mark with the Warrior of Light when Moenbryda did not. He refuses to let this train of thought drag him into a new pit of despair, however, forcing himself to stay focused on the task at hand. One life for one world…

_“Perhaps Nymeia simply has grander plans for us.”_

If the threads of fate were so cruel in one aspect, perhaps they’d allow him this one success.

*

Minfilia (now Her emissary) doesn’t blame him, but Alisaie certainly does.

Alisaie surprises Urianger that day as well. When he sees her summon her aetheric blade for the first time, Urianger finally considers allowing himself to fall in love with her.

Long after the rest of the Scions have (at least publicly) gotten over their resentment towards him for the loss of their antecedent, Alisaie continues to be cold towards Urianger. This offends him in a way that is wholly irrational, considering the injustice he’s committed against them. Urianger would accept everyone else’s ire if it meant Alisaie would forgive him. Or even consider forgiving him.

“I tried not to think the worst. You've never been one to confide in others, so I knew that even were your intentions pure, you would not share your plans with us until you felt the time was right,” Alisaie finally breaks their uncomfortable silence on the Warrior of Light’s insistence. “But I cannot deny that a part of me feared you had simply betrayed us.”

“Would that there had been another way,” Urianger tries to apologize. “Know that I took no pleasure in deceiving thee, and that these sins will forever weigh heavy on my heart.”

She sighs. “I understand why you did what you did. That you but sought to achieve the greatest good while inflicting the least harm. Not many would have the courage to make that choice,” she offers. “But even knowing what came of your actions...I find that I cannot condone them. I'm sorry.”

She allows him to escort her back to the Waking Sands regardless.

Papalymo dies no differently than Louisoix or Moenbryda. Lyse is devastated. Alongside her tattoo, her mark dissipates with his death as well. No one quite has the right words to console her, and instead, insist they’ll take back Ala Mhigo. They’ll defeat the primal that he sacrificed himself to contain. It reminds him of when Moenbryda died, and everyone insisted they’d defeat the Ascians in her honor. Look how well that turned out.

Alisaie is the first to volunteer herself for the cause, and Urianger thinks up the perfect peace offering.

“Impressive.” She inspects the rapier closely. “it feels as though it's attuned to my aether.” _It is, because I am._

She smiles at him like the night she sobbed in his arms, and his heart skips a beat.

Half a moon later, long after Alisaie has likely reached Kugane, Urianger receives an East Aldenard Company crate of Hingashi historical texts, addressed to him but with no note indicating the sender. Not that it needed one.

He follows their adventures as closely as he is able while still maintaining his responsibilities around the Sands. Thancred, in particular, does the closest thing possible to collecting newspaper clippings of Alisaie’s exploits. When Urianger confronts him about this, Thancred’s eyes light up for the first time since Ul’dah, revealing the hopeless romantic he secretly is.

“She is your soulmate, is she not?”

Urianger rolls his eyes, but his goggles dampen the effect of the gesture. Thancred smirks.

“Your secret is safe with me, my friend. Though you could be doing a better job of hiding it.”

*

Alisaie seems surprised to see him there, in Rhalgr’s Reach by her bedside.

“You came all this way just to visit me?”

“Master Alphinaud implied thy wounds might be fatal.”

“Did he, now?” The corner of Alisaie’s mouth curls into a faint smile. “I suppose I should thank him for his exaggeration.”

She beckons him closer, even though the action clearly brings her pain. Urianger steps forward until he’s practically touching the edge of her bed.

She grabs his wrist and pulls his hand towards her, knocking him briefly off his balance until he’s leaning over her. She pulls up his sleeve and runs her fingers over the mark, leaving a tingling sensation behind. “It suits you better, I think.”

Urianger laughs darkly. He’s spent his entire life thinking the opposite.

“I apologize,” She adds, before allowing him control of his arm again. “I know fate and destiny are sort of your _thing_ but…”

The disappointment creeps up on him, “No need-”

“You frustrate me!” She blurts, ignoring his interruption. “I have not been able to stop thinking about you, and I am unsure that the mark is solely to blame. Hells, I’ve spent the past four years fawning over you, and I can hardly tell if you consider me as much as a friend.” She brings up her hand to brush through her hair. Urianger can’t help but note that she looks beautiful with it unbraided. “But you know what? I don’t even mind. All I want is to sit and listen to you explain prophecies as if they’re the most obvious conclusions in the world, despite everyone else finding them cryptic. I want you to try and teach me to summon an amber carbuncle again, though I hate arcana with my entire being.”

Urianger can’t bring himself to look her in the eye, suddenly nervous of all things.

“So I suppose…” She sighs. “I know fate and destiny are your thing, but it seems like you’ve made an exception for me. Perhaps I ought to frame it differently.” Alisaie clears her throat and forces herself to sit up, wincing. “Would you please just give me a chance, not as your soulmate, but as someone who is completely and utterly fascinated by you?”

The girl, nay, _woman_ , looks up at him with hopeful eyes. Urianger is thankful she said what he himself was too cowardly to.

*

“This looks like as good a place as any.” Lyse overlooks the salty Loch, preparing to jump in.

“Ere you dive into the briny deep─”

“Urianger! What are you doing here?” Both she and the Warrior of Light look surprised to see him there.

“Master Alphinaud informed me of your plan” _and Alisaie’s condition_ “and thus did I hasten to your side.” But there are more important things to discuss, “When Mistress Alisaie unfolded to me the tale of her defeat, I was much intrigued by the apparent ease with which Fordola, a theretofore unexceptional warrior, defied my lady’s every attempt to do her harm. After some few days of deliberation, I subsequently contrived what I believe to be a solution to the problem of her preternatural prescience. ‘Twas in hopes of furnishing you with the fruits of my labors that I came.”

“Wait, isn’t that Moenbryda’s─”

He’s taken slightly off guard by her name. “Her aetheric siphon formed the basis for my design. Should my hypothesis prove correct, you need but activate it in her presence. To say more would endanger the plan, for ignorance is your shield.” In her time away from the rest of the Scions, it’s clear that Lyse has changed. He had always considered her unremarkable, maybe a bit tragic, but as she stands with the Warrior of Light, determined to rescue their friend, he finds himself respecting her. “It was…Moenbryda’s time. It is not yours, my friends. May you ever walk in the light of the Crystal…and return.”

“We will─for you and for her.” He feels guilty for at first assuming she’s speaking of Alisaie, but he forgives himself. He’s been thinking of Alisaie a lot lately, after all.

*

Alphinaud later tells Urianger that Alisaie attempted to reason with a beast tribe intent on empowering a primal and, though she didn’t succeed, Alphinaud admits he found the entire exchange inspirational. Terrifying, but inspirational. In conjunction with her nearly dying to rescue Krile, the Warrior of Light practically begs Alisaie to join their party more permanently. After she recovers from her injuries, that is.

True to her word, Alisaie resumes adventuring as soon as she’s able to walk again. But when she’s in Eorzea, she spends her time at the Sands. He learns things about Alisaie he never expected, like that she’s a passable cook, or that she’s got a lovely voice when she thinks no one is listening. She tells him all about X’rhun Tia and how she passed the time in Eorzea before she rejoined the Scions.

Urianger realizes that, for the past dozen years of his life, he’s been too distracted by the idea of Alisaie to get to know the real person behind the mark.

If he learned anything from his relationship with Moenbryda, it’s that life is too short. He refuses to waste any more time with Alisaie. He falls fast, and he falls hard. She’s no less intense, admitting she’s in love with him long before Urianger even fathoms speaking the words aloud.

She reminds Urianger of Moenbryda in some ways. They are both outgoing, headstrong, and brilliant. All theoretical jealousy aside, he thinks the two of them would have been friends.

Alisaie never asks Urianger to compare her to Moenbryda, and for that he is grateful. In reality, his feelings for Moenbryda feel so distant and his feelings for Alisaie so tangible that he can’t honestly answer such a question accurately. Surprising himself, however, Urianger does ask Alisaie if she’s bothered by his past relationship.

“I can only benefit from your experience.” Alisaie smirks and Urianger stutters awkwardly.

He has to physically restrain Thancred from organizing a celebration in their honor when he catches Urianger and Alisaie together. Beyond being mortified, Urianger worries the Scions will judge him for moving on so quickly. His fears are unfounded. Even Lyse, the next closest Scion to Moenbryda after himself, simply smiles at the news and admits she’s suspected the two of them for a while now.

“I’m just happy you two are happy.” Lyse grins and pats Alisaie on the shoulder. She speaks to Urianger with the tone of an overprotective sister, “If you hurt her…”

“Aye, I shall fear thy wrath.” Lyse chuckles at that, pulling him into a hug. The contact is unexpected, but not unpleasant.

Urianger isn’t present when Alisaie tells her brother, but she reveals there were tears involved.

*

Of the two of them, Alisaie is the least religious. Which is why Urianger is surprised when he finds her praying the night before their wedding.

They would marry under Thaliak, both Urianger and Alisaie’s patron deity, but Alisaie looks upon the Ewer, the constellation that represents both halves of the water elemental pair.

“Nymeia, I’m sorry for doubting you.” She mumbles in the direction of the sea, her back facing Vesper Bay. “And cursing your name for the longest time.”

Urianger smiles at the way she apologizes like a child that disobeyed their parents. Nymeia is likely used to being subjected to resentment for more reasons than her mark. He looks up at the constellation and whispers faintly, “Mine apology is much the same.”

Knowing a person’s relationship to the gods is sacred and personal, he leaves. He, too, atoned for his doubts in his own way. His personal altar is a testament to that, more appropriate for a devout of Nymeia in the recent moons.

Until they marry, though, these apologies are but words. When the time comes, they will offer their love and bare their marks before both the Twelve and their loved ones.

There’s no one he’d rather do it with.


End file.

**Author's Note:**

> Timeline-wise, this takes place between chapters 27 and 28 of In Time. That said, this wasn't written with the expectation of In Time having been read first, or at all.
> 
> The primary deviation between this fic and In Time is that the Warrior of Light is named. The inspiration behind this story was to tie my main (Zoisite) and all of my alts together in the universe I'd already created here, for RP purposes... and hopefully, write a compelling story in doing so. 
> 
> This will be updated every other day, alternating with my other fic, Duality, which is more direct In Time continuation.
> 
> Enjoy!

Ichelle sits on the floor, cross-legged, with her spear in her lap and a bottle of the sticky sap Estinien insists she coats it with every fortnight when she hears an urgent knock on her front door. She briefly wonders who would be knocking this late in the evening before her father drops what he’s doing in the kitchen to answer it. He glares at Ichelle for not even pretending to consider doing it herself. 

“Can I help-” Ichelle can’t see what’s happening on the porch, but her father’s demeanor changes.

A breathy laugh from the other side of the door follows, accompanied by an attempt at a suggestive “I don’t know, _can you_?” 

Artoirel sighs and swings the door open, allowing the young, blonde, elezen woman to limp into their foyer, clutching her bleeding side and collapsing on the nearest piece of furniture she can find. “Should I contact your mother?”

“No!” She quickly protests, curling in on herself. “I don’t suppose Zois is around-”

“She’s in Mor Dhona.” He explains before staring at Ichelle expectantly. “Can you go get some towels and hot water?”

Ichelle sighs and pushes her spear to the side before standing. The teenager on the couch groans, “It’s really not necessary-”

“Nonsense. I’ll contact your uncle, in the meantime.” Despite protests, Artoirel draws his hand up to his linkpearl and mumbles quietly. After a second glare, Ichelle scurries beyond the kitchen to grab some clean towels and fills a bowl half with boiling water and half with room temperature. When she returns, her father is nowhere to be found.

“I really don’t need-” When Ichelle kneels down next to the girl and wets a towel, she raises an eyebrow. “I don’t believe we’ve met. I’m Erleanne.” Erleanne looks up at her with golden eyes, and Ichelle tries to ignore the part of her that suddenly wants to panic.

“Ichelle.” She pulls Erleanne’s hand away to look at the blood, but it’s hard to tell with the shirt still on. She sighs. “Can you lift your shirt?”

Erleanne chuckles and immediately looks like she regrets it, clearly in pain. “I think I can handle that much.” There’s a deep puncture wound on her side, probably from a dagger, but there’s a slice across her ribcage, some of which is still covered by her shirt, even after she’s pulled it up. She folds a piece of towel and holds it to the puncture wound, but she’ll need to see the extent of the slice before she decides if she should be worried about it.

“I uh.” Ichelle starts, awkwardly. “I think you probably need to take that off.”

Erleanne smirks through her grimace. “You’re awfully determined to see me without my shirt on.”

“I could just let you die here,” Ichelle suggests, and Erleanne pulls her shirt over her head. Ichelle immediately blushes... something that she can tell Erleanne noticed by the sudden upturn of her lips. Trying to stay professional, she cleans the entire cut the best she can. It’s relatively shallow, compared to the other wound. She also notices that beyond these two injuries, her skin is unmarred by scars. Ichelle assumes this means that, despite her attempts to seem nonchalant, Erleanne has likely never experienced wounds of this gravity before.

Ichelle grabs the now discarded shirt and hands it back to Erleanne, who tries to pull it on while also applying pressure to her side. If it weren’t so gruesome, Ichelle might have laughed. “I take it you’re not a healer.” Erleanne jokes.

“You’re awfully appreciative.” Ichelle takes the bloody towels to exchange for clean ones, feeling a little bit guilty for just leaving them on the floor. She lingers in the other room for a while, watching Erleanne from a distance, before curiosity gets the best of her. “What even happened?”

Artoirel interrupts, and Ichelle is grateful that he chose now instead of when the other girl was shirtless to do so. “I spoke with Alphinaud, he and Zoisite are on their way.” He turns to Ichelle, “I will fetch your mother from the Manufactory. She might be able to help as well.”

Ichelle supposes this means that Erleanne is a Scion. Alphinaud and Zoisite have always been somewhat permanent fixtures of Ichelle’s life, Zoisite a close friend of her parents’ and Alphinaud a close friend of her mentor, Estinien, but while she’s heard stories of the other Scions, she’s never met them. Ichelle recalls Alphinaud mentioning that he had nieces, and Zoisite indicating that one of them had moved to Ishgard, but she only just connected that these stories were about the teenager in front of her.

Zoisite bursts through the door, not even knocking. Ichelle stands and steps back, not wanting to get in the path of the pink-haired midlander who, she knows from experience, is a force to be reckoned with when angry. “I leave you alone for one evening-”

“Can we save the lecture?” Erleanne whines and Zoisite sighs as she takes what was Ichelle’s spot, kneeling in front of the Erleanne. “Something is going on around here…”

Alphinaud follows quickly after, more concerned than annoyed, unlike his partner. He looks at Ichelle, still a bit covered in blood, and back at Erleanne, a lot covered in blood, but still alive, and offers Ichelle an impressed nod. “What a shame your sister couldn’t be here, she’s a much better healer than I am.” He chuckles as he flips through his grimoire and casts Physick. “You will most certainly have a scar.”

“So will Ishgard if we don’t deal with-” She groans as Alphinaud draws the rest of his magic out of her, leaving her with a wound perfectly capable of healing with only rest and time. Panting, she finishes her sentence, “these _conspirators_.”

“Elaborate.” Alphinaud demands and Erleanne nods, trying to force herself into a sitting position.

“Some of the younger members of the high houses… the anniversary of the war’s end…” Erleanne pants, dropping her calm facade. “There are plans to assassinate Aymeric and Vidofnir.”

The Warrior of Light furrows her brow and lifts a determined hand, but Alphinaud stops her. “I don’t know that violence is the answer, just yet.”

Zoisite rolls her eyes at Alphinaud, “It’s too late for that. Your niece is injured.” Looking to Erleanne, “Where did you say you last saw them?”

“The Central Highlands, near Dragonhead,” Erleanne explains and Ichelle wonders if her uncle is aware of this. There must be some significance to choosing Fortemps territory for such a meeting. Darkly, she figures it might have something to do with Emmanellain’s already weak control over their portion of the Central Highlands. When her father finds out, he will be furious.

The Warrior of Light looks lost in thought for a moment before turning to Erleanne with pity, “We will take care of it. Thank you for your help so far, Erleanne.” Erleanne shakes her head in protest, but the Warrior of Light gives her a stern glare and Erleanne backs down, crossing her arms and nodding politely.

The Warrior of Light stands, brushing off her pants as she leaves the house, Alphinaud trailing behind her explaining something too incoherent for Ichelle to understand.

The two teenagers sit in silence for a long while, Ichelle gazing off into the distance and Erleanne picking at her freshly healed wounds. Erleanne is the first to break the silence.

“I may not seem appreciative.” Erleanne starts, pushing her sweat-soaked white hair out of her face and behind her ear before smiling at Ichelle, “But I am. Thank you for your help.”

“I wasn’t about to let you die in my foyer.” Ichelle brushes off the compliment, trying to hide how suddenly nervous she is.

“Still. I owe you one.” Erleanne looks past Ichelle and towards Ichelle’s spear on the ground, half coated in sap. “I could make some adjustments to your spear if you’d like.”

“I like it simple. It’s traditional.” Ichelle frowns and feels the need to defend herself but the elezen smirks.

“You dragoons and your traditions.” Ichelle follows Erleanne’s eyes to the doorway, the other former Azure Dragoon standing within it, he glances between the two of them and smirks.

“Aye, that is our way. Among other things.”

“What?” Ichelle asks, and he just chuckles and shakes his head. She sometimes wishes he wore his traditional dragoon gear, at least it would shield her from his infuriating facial expressions.

“You’re needed. Suit up and meet me at the Aetheryte.” Estinien leaves without another word, slamming the door behind him.

Ichelle collects her gear from her room, putting on every piece except her helmet. When she returns, Erleanne is sitting forward, looking as if she might attempt to stand.

“Will you be alright if I leave you alone?” Erleanne smiles and nods.

“Be safe.” Erleanne offers, “You can’t take care of both of us.”

“I wasn’t planning on _taking care_ of you.” Ichelle puts on her helmet and grabs her spear, affixing it to her armor. 

“That’s a shame.” Ichelle ignores the comment and steps out the door, thankful the helmet is hiding the bright shade of red believes she must be turning.

* * *

 

_A midlander woman with dark pink hair stands atop a ledge, “Hear me, brothers and sisters! Do not be fooled by the honeyed words of the Dravanians! The peace they promise is but a prelude to slaughter!” The audience, a collection of knights and civilians, raise their heads in interest. “Remember your husbands and wives, never returned from war! Your children torn apart by fang and claw. All your loved ones, shown no mercy! Does not your heart cry out for vengeance? Your blood boil at the injustice? Remember the face of your enemy, brothers and sisters! Remember it and strike back!”_

_ Emmanellain looks on nervously before making a decision. He turns to the archer next to him, “You there! Don’t just stand around gawping! Do something, man! Stop her!” _

_ The knight, panicked, “Yes, yes, my lord!” The knight quickly raises his bow and fires an arrow into the woman’s arm, and as she staggers, the onlookers gape in horror.  _

_“See! See here the true nature of the highborn! With lies and deception they lead us to our doom, and dare we raise our voices in dissent- death is our reward!” The woman closes her eyes and shakes her head, “This is the choice they have given us, brothers and sisters! Death by dragon’s fang or death by nobleman’s command. Death to all we hold dear! I spit on your choices, noblemen! You will take no more from me… no more! NO MORE!”_

_ The archer strikes her again, this time in the gut, and as she collapses, Emmanellain’s face contorts into horror himself, and regret. “What have you done?” _

_ “I- I only did as you ordered, my lord…” The knight explains, only further stoking the hatred in the onlookers. Emmanellain cowers defensively. _

_ “I gave no such order! I did not! I… I never meant for anyone to…”  _

Ichelle doesn’t even recall losing consciousness, but she wakes up in a busy infirmary. She can hear talking and shouting in varying levels of urgency, but because of her disorientation, she can’t make out any voices individually. When she opens her eyes, everything is just a light-filled blur. Instead, she groans and sits up, thankful to know she has no open wounds on her upper body.

She blinks a few times, and the blurriness fades. She’s able to distinguish her father and uncle’s faces, eyes wide at her sudden wakefulness. She looks around to see if her mother is present, but she’s not really surprised when she isn’t. Emmanellain massages the bridge of his nose as if he too is suffering from a headache.

“How long have I been out?” She flinches at the sound of her own voice.

“As far as the chirurgeons can tell, only a few hours. As far as I know, Alphinaud, Estinien, and Zoisite have not yet awoken.” Artoirel explains, and Emmanellain studies her curiously.

“What happened?” She asks and Emmanellain shrugs.

“Not sure, I found the four of you unconscious near Skyfire Locks.”

Ichelle tries to remember. She recalls being surprised by Ciavant de Dzemael’s strength, a boy she had grown up with. He was never much of a fighter, even wrestling as kids, she was able to beat him without much effort, even with his additional two summers. He raised his staff, and the four of them were blown back instantly, their weapons clattering around them. From there, she fell unconscious. “He was… stronger than I thought.”

“Who?” Her father raises his eyebrows, and Ichelle shakes her head.

“Ciavant. He was able to knock us all back with one spell, and he didn’t even need to cast it for long.”

“I can hardly say I’m surprised that House Dzemael is behind this.” Emmanellain grumbles and Ichelle sighs.

“It wasn’t just Dzemael, there was a Durendaire woman and a few members of the extended Fortemps and Haillenarte House as well… they just lacked the strength of Ciavant.”

Erleanne makes herself known, having been standing outside the room, presumably until she heard something worth interjecting into. “They seek revenge for the restructuring of the state after the end of the Dragonsong war.” Now that she’s standing and seemingly uninjured, Ichelle can see that she’s actually quite short, despite her large personality. She could not be any older than Ichelle herself, at sixteen summers old, even though she presents herself as if she’s much older. “The common folk have largely come around to the change and embrace it, particularly because of your mother’s involvement.” Erleanne points to Ichelle, who nods. Her mother had been particularly instrumental in the restructuring of the government, thanks to her upbringing in the Brume. “But deep down, the common folk have never quite forgotten the war, nor forgiven the Dravanians. I’d imagine the same is true in the inverse.”

“Are you suggesting that the youths of the High Houses have joined forces with resentful Dravanians?” Artoirel asks for clarification and Erleanne nods. 

“At the very least with the intent to stage an attack, to re-instigate a conflict between Ishgard and the Dravanians. Possibly to take revenge against Aymeric and House Fortemps directly. It’s difficult to tell.”

“It explains the unusual strength.” Ichelle offers, “Estinien told me of his experiences with the Eye of Nidhogg, and how it so often managed to take control of him.” Worried now, she sighs. “Estinien is one of the strongest men I know, if even he couldn’t safely use the eye, I can’t see it ending well for Ciavant.”

“Fortunately, this is all still speculation.” Her father, ever the voice of reason, stops them from following this train of thought too far. “Get some rest, and we will discuss this later.”

Ichelle considers protesting but lacks the energy. Instead, she nods. Artoirel kisses Ichelle on the forehead and leaves, his brother as well, leaving the two girls alone, much to Ichelle’s displeasure.

“Did I not order you to stay safe?” Erleanne jokes.

“My apologies, I hadn’t realized my childhood friend would suddenly come into possession of a dragon's eye and use it to knock me and many of my betters unconscious in a matter of seconds.”

“Perhaps you should have.” Erleanne laughs, seemingly no worse for the wear from her own injuries. “I wish I could have seen the fight. If only to see if you’re half as talented with the lance as I am.”

“You’re a lancer?”

“I was before I discovered firearms. I have since abandoned any intent of becoming a dragoon.”

“So you’re a machinist.” 

“Don’t say it with so much disdain, _princess_.” Erleanne smirks at Ichelle’s sudden annoyance.

“I’m no princess. The High Houses are hardly more than figureheads in Ishgard.” Ichelle sneers, “Plus, who are you to call me a princess? You’re a Leveilleur!”

Ichelle notices she hit a nerve when Erleanne scoffs, “I am _not_! I am an Augurelt. My mother was a Leveilleur, I will admit as much, but my father is no noble.”

“Ladies.” Aymeric clears his throat, interrupting the escalating argument. “Settle down.”

“You’re safe?” Ichelle asks, genuinely surprised to see him. He raises an eyebrow.

“Did you expect otherwise?”

“You were sort of the target,” Erleanne explains, and he laughs.

“My enemies would hardly assassinate me in the privacy of my own home. Any benefit to be gained from my death would be done with a large audience. I will be avoiding any such public events until this menace is dealt with.”

“That seems reasonable.” Ichelle accepts his answer, but Erleanne bristles.

“So what are we doing to deal with it?”

“ _We_ aren’t. When Alphinaud and Zoisite awake, we will recruit the help of the Scions. In the meantime, I have a much safer task for you, when you’ve recovered, Ichelle.”

“Anything I can do to help.”

“Dravanians, for all of their wisdom, have yet to master the usage of a linkpearl. It is for that reason that a party must venture to Anyx Trine to warn Vidofnir to avoid Ishgard until it is safe again.”

“So instead of using this event as the perfect opportunity to lure these conspirators out of their hiding place and into the open so that they can be dealt with, you’re going to hide?” Erleanne questions and both Ichelle and Aymeric are taken aback by her candor.

“Part of being a leader is knowing when to restrain yourself for others’ safety. I would gladly risk my own life, but I cannot make that decision for Vidofnir, especially not after everything she has done for our people.” Erleanne crosses her arms, unsatisfied with that answer. “I would ask that you bring Erleanne along, Ichelle. As an engineer, she will prove invaluable in your journey. Her access to air transportation will be helpful as well.”

“Why not just send Erleanne, then?” Ichelle wonders out loud.

“If Estinien were awake and able to have input in this decision, I am certain he’d agree with me. As your mentor and teacher, he has shared with me his expectations for you and your role moving forward.” Ichelle smiles smugly, “But as you’ve lived your life in the comfort of Fortemps Manor, you can hardly be offered additional responsibility without seeing the nation and peoples we have been working to protect.” Erleanne snickers, her earlier point only further supported by Aymeric herself. “Not that you are perfect, Erleanne. Zoisite has expressed concerns that you tend to put yourself in unnecessary danger. Perhaps Ichelle will teach you some restraint.”

Ichelle takes the opportunity the snicker, this time.

“So when do we leave?”


	2. Chapter 2

“Somehow, when Aymeric mentioned air transportation, this wasn’t what I pictured.” Ichelle looks at the airship. It was a little unfair to airships to call what is in front of her one of them, though.

“That’s just because you’ve never seen it fly.” Erleanne pats the nose cone affectionately, “This has been a many-year labor of love from the Ironworks. That’s not even including my adjustments.”

“Adjustments…” Ichelle eyes the four unsettlingly small rotors protruding from its side.

“The original design had some kind of limiter… so that had to go, of course.” Erleanne smiles, “And, obviously I extended the seating bench to allow a second passenger.”

“Is there a reason we are taking this and not an actual airship?” Ichelle questions, again, and Erleanne stares at her, apparently finding the answer obvious.

“Because it’s more efficient on fuel, something that’s sort of difficult to find in the more undeveloped parts of Dravania…”

Ichelle sighs, running her hand through her hair as she tries to come up with a plausible excuse to turn back on this now. Maybe she could convince Estinien to override his partner’s judgment and allow her to go alone.

Alphinaud, half-heartedly overseeing their preparations, interjects. “To this day I have only seen Erleanne’s inventions fail a handful of times, and none of them fatally.”

“Have any of them been airships?”

“Admittedly, the airship portion of her career consisted of much more oversight.”

“Thank you for your confidence, uncle.” Seemingly satisfied with her concerningly short inspection, Erleanne shoves her bag into the small storage compartment under the seat.

Ichelle pulls on the shoulder straps of her bag, not sure that she intends to part with it, even if it would go into a designated storage space. “So is everything ready to go?”

“I’d say so. Unless you need to take care of your goodbyes, we really ought to leave soon if we plan on making it to Falcon’s Nest before sundown, especially in this weather.” Erleanne crosses her arms and raises an eyebrow, expecting Ichelle to suddenly change her mind.

Ichelle shakes her head, “I bid farewell to my parents this morning. I’m ready if you are.”

She takes a moment to look out, off the end of the skydocks, before she agrees to leave. It was odd to her, she had always expected that, if she were to venture outside of Ishgard and the Central Highlands, that it would be with her family or Estinien. Not someone she’d only just met.

“Are you coming, or not?” Erleanne asks one more time, and Ichelle nods.

“Stay safe, dear niece,” Alphinaud suggests, and Erleanne laughs as Ichelle boards the craft.

“You know I won’t.” Ichelle awkwardly shuffles herself around in the seat, trying to fit into the groove without touching the girl in front of her. “I don’t bite.” Erleanne impatiently grabs Ichelle’s wrists and wraps them around her waist. “Can’t have the princess of House Fortemps falling off the back of my airship and plummeting to her death.”

“I’m not-” Without warning, the machine comes to life, and within seconds, Ichelle is looking back at Ishgard, her home, growing harder and harder to see, until it’s completely obscured by fog.

* * *

When they finally land at Falcon’s Nest, Ichelle is deeply grateful for solid ground. She practically allows herself to collapse as soon as she dismounts the ship, thankful that it isn’t moving beneath her.

“You’ll get used to it,” Erleanne assures her, and Ichelle looks up at the girl, still looking just as effortlessly beautiful as she did before they left. Ichelle, on the other hand, felt as if she could puke, her face is raw from a combination of ice in the atmosphere and her own tears from a few bouts of sheer terror, and her hair is so obnoxiously windswept that it possibly doubled in volume. She tries to pretend her reaction to this realization is one of admiration and jealousy.

“I hope I never have to.” Finding the courage to stand when Erleanne offers a hand to help her up, she wobbles on her feet for a moment. After a failed attempt to smooth down her hair, she changes the topic. “Time to prepare for some incredibly dishonest diplomacy.”

“Why is that?” Erleanne looks genuinely confused, and Ichelle enjoys the opportunity to look at her with the same annoyed disdain that the elezen had used on her plenty in the past few hours.

“Because Falcon’s Nest is under the joint control of House Durendaire and House Dzemael, neither of which are particularly fond of House Fortemps. Nor us of them, frankly.” Ichelle explains, “But hopefully they are not so courageous as to admit so to my face. I’d wager that we're offered a meal and a place to sleep for the night within bells of our arrival..” Leaving the ship in the landing area, Ichelle makes her way towards the seat of command.

“Are all of you Ishgardians so hostile?” Erleanne's tone implies she's kidding, though Ichelle knows she’s only half joking.

“There’s political bickering in the other city-states as well.” Ichelle argues but Erleanne harumphs judgementally.

“But no one in Gridania or Limsa Lominsa would let someone starve or freeze to death over an abstract family feud.”

“No, but they would if that someone lacked coin. Is it really all that different?” Erleanne shrugs at that, letting Ichelle take the lead.

Ichelle swings the door open and for a moment, Travonne de Durendaire, the steward of Falcon’s Nest, ignores the interruption. Until Erleanne impolitely clears her throat, earning a stern look from Ichelle.

Equally as artificial as the smile on Ichelle’s face, the dark-skinned, auburn-haired woman behind the desk smiles sweetly at Ichelle, “Lady Ichelle, what brings you to my hamlet?”

“Just passing through.” Ichelle has always been intimidated by Travonne, a handful of summers her senior and as cunning as she is well-mannered. Unlike the Dzemael boys, the Durendaire heirs were calculating and intentional, not allowing their emotions to get in the way of what they saw as good business.

“Do you have a place to stay?” Travonne looks at the girls in a way that may seem sympathetic, but that Ichelle interprets as patronizing. She tries to contain her annoyance and shakes her head.

“Not exactly. We were hoping to set up camp nearby if you’d allow it.”

“Nonsense.” Travonne beckons over one of her guards, “See to it that these two ladies are taken care of.”

The guard nods and Travonne smiles at them, and Ichelle can see from the corner of her eye that Erleanne looks suspicious, which she can’t really blame her for.

“I appreciate your kindness, Lady Travonne.” Ichelle can’t bring herself to make eye contact with the woman, her gaze too intense Ichelle to meet without faltering.

“It’s my pleasure. Be sure to send your father my regards, when next you see him.” She nods, a clear dismissal, and the guard looks at the two of them expectantly.

Unable to determine the guard’s gender, Ichelle settles on a neutral address. “Lead the way, my friend.” When Ichelle looks back at Erleanne, her expression is unreadable. She slows her walking pace to allow some distance between the two of them and the guard as he leads them back into the courtyard. “What?”

“That was just painful to watch,” Erleanne confesses.

“I beg your pardon?” Ichelle immediately reacts defensively.

“I kept expecting her to send us to the dungeons or something.”

Ichelle chuckles, “She’s unscrupulous, but not evil.”

“Remind me to stay out of this noble drama in the future.” Erleanne speeds up, leaving Ichelle trailing behind as they enter a tower. When the guard shows them to a room, Ichelle thanks them again, and shuts the door as soon as they turn to walk away.

As soon as the door closes, she relaxes, pretending Erleanne isn’t there with her and allowing her remaining adrenaline and anxiety to melt away as she leaned against the cool wood of the door.

“One bed,” Erleanne observes curiously.

“You can have it, but next time we find ourselves in this situation, the bed is mine.” Too tired to argue, Ichelle lets her bag fall to the ground and takes one of the two pillows from the bed and tosses it on the floor in front of the fireplace.

Erleanne doesn’t move from her spot standing hear the door, and when Ichelle looks at her, she’s trying to suppress a laugh.

“What is so funny?”

“Just…” Erleanne breathes deeply, “I make you so uncomfortable that you’d rather sleep on the floor than share a bed with me?”

“It’s not-”

Giggling, “Either you find me completely repulsive or immensely attractive.”

Ichelle huffs, “It’s probably dark outside, we should get some sleep.”

“I’m sorry,” Still smiling, Erleanne continues to taunt, “Did I offend you?”

Instead of dignifying that with a response, Ichelle lays on the floor and curls up in front of the fire, facing away from the source of her annoyance. Hearing some footsteps and the creak of the bed frame, Ichelle breaks her silence. “Goodnight.”

“You too.”

* * *

_“I know Cid would never admit it.” A tall man with an elezen build but a distinctly hyur face stands across from Erleanne in some sort of workshop, “But I believe you’ve outgrown the Ironworks.” Zoisite is there as well, sitting on a bench and fidgeting with a piece of rubber._

_Erleanne crosses her arms, “But I like it here, and I am still pretty terrible at building airships.”_

_“But you’re above average in weapon crafting.” He brushes his blonde hair out of his eyes, revealing his third eye. Garlean. “Your talents would go much farther in Ishgard, at the Skysteel Manufactory, I’d imagine.”_

_“I’d have to leave everyone behind.”_

_“Not everyone.” Zoisite interjects, “I’d come along. Estinien has requested my assistance in the assessment of a potential Azure Dragoon replacement.”_

_“Aye.” The man’s face softens, and Erleanne appears genuinely surprised by it, “And as much as we tend to disagree on many fundamental principles of engineering, Hilda is almost as competent a mentor as I could ever be.”_

_Zoisite’s lip turns up at that, “Plus, Edrianne has benefitted so much from moving away. I can’t imagine you’d want to stay in your childhood bedroom in Mor Dhona for the rest of time.”_

_Erleanne shrugs._

_“You don’t have to make this decision now, but you should consider it.” The man finishes, putting his hand on her shoulder. “Talk it over with your parents, think about where you really see yourself in the future and let me know.”_

_He saunters off, leaving Zoisite and Erleanne alone._

_“It’s not like Nero to be so-”_

_“Constructive?” Erleanne interrupts and Zoisite snickers._

_“I was going to say affectionate.” The hyur puts down the rubber piece. “He and Cid have really grown protective of you, so it says a lot that he’s willing to sacrifice you to Hilda.”_

_“I know that.” Erleanne sighs. “I’ll think about it.”_

* * *

Ichelle finds the fireplace cold and groans, curling farther in on herself.

“You can join me, you know.” She doesn’t even have to turn around to know that the elezen has a smug look on her face.

“What are you doing awake?” Ichelle mutters.

“Headache woke me up.” Ichelle hears shuffling and rolls over to see Erleanne laying up against the wall, holding up her blanket to show off the ample room left on the bed.

Ichelle stares intensely at the fireplace for a few more moments, willing it to re-light, and when it inevitably doesn’t, she stands.

She climbs into bed with her pillow in hand and turns away from her bedmate. “You know, it would be easier to warm up if we-”

“Don’t push it.”

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> fun fact, I had to google "synonyms for hearth" to remember the word "fireplace"...


	3. Chapter 3

They land on a rocky outcrop near Ashpool, thanks to Ichelle’s insistence that she sees the “Dreaming Dragon” up close. Erleanne looks at the map her uncle annotated and the passage before them. On the map, there is a very clear note,“ _take the tunnel under the mountains, it will let out in the Chocobo Forest, which leads to the rest of the Dravanian Forelands_.” Erleanne looks at the mountain range and scoffs, tucking the map back into her coat pocket.

Ichelle stares at the strange protrusion in the middle of the lake with awe. Erleanne snorts at how she looks like a child opening a present during the Starlight Celebration, her eyes wide and her smile wider. When she notices that Erleanne is watching her, she doesn’t even hide it.

“It’s beautiful, isn’t it?” She asks and Erleanne chuckles.

“Honestly it looks like a weird rock.”

“You’ve heard the story though, yes?” When Erleanne doesn’t respond, Ichelle continues. “It’s said that a dragon was incapacitated by Ishgardian mages after being drawn here by dragoons. In its anger, it created so much fire and ash that it sealed itself. The Calamity covered it in ice.” She frowns, “It’s said to still be alive in there, sleeping. What a tragic fate.”

Erleanne resists the urge to laugh, the utterly earnest look on her traveling partner’s face making her feel a bit guilty. She also refrains from pointing out how ridiculous that sounds, and how Ishgardians are historically known for creative lies. Instead, she shrugs. “I know nothing about it.”

After a deep breath, Ichelle turns to Erleanne, apparently satisfied with her brief sightseeing excursion. “Sorry, I’ve just only ever seen this from Falcon’s Nest. It’s fascinating to see it up close.”

Realization washes over Erleanne, “Have you never been this far away from Ishgard before?”

Ichelle shakes her head, “Unless you count the Central Highlands. I’ve been to Dragonhead a handful of times.”

“But don’t your people control this area?” Erleanne looks confused.

“The Western Highlands are under the control of Dzemael and Durendaire.” Ichelle shrugs, “I believe we used to have control of the Dusk Vigil, or at least our allies did.”

“You’ve never been curious?”

“Of course I’ve been.” Ichelle bristles, “But I have my responsibilities to attend to in Ishgard, as a dragoon.”

“And as a _noblewoman_.”

“Can you give it a rest already?” Finally losing her patience, Ichelle snaps. “You work under my mother, she’s technically a bloody Countess! Does she seem like a typical noblewoman to you?”

“Why does it bother you so much?”

“Does it matter?” Ichelle shuts down the conversation, walking back to the airship. “Can we just get on with what we are actually out here for?”

“You don’t have to ask me twice.” Erleanne glances at the tunnel one last time, debating heeding her uncle’s advice for the last time. She shakes her head, nothing interesting ever comes from following the rules.

* * *

Ichelle blinks and does a quick inventory of her injuries. Her back definitely hurts, but that is to be expected considering that she fell directly on it, on top of her lance. Her neck as well. She can wiggle all of her fingers and all of her toes, bend her knees and elbows. It doesn’t hurt to breathe, so her ribs must not be broken.

She forces herself to sit up, despite the soreness, and looks around at her surroundings. It’s warm, unusually warm, especially in contrast to the frozen tundra they had just left. Erleanne must have taken the brunt of the impact, considering that she’s unconscious and a few yalms away from the front of the airship, while Ichelle is still entangled in some of its parts.

Ichelle forces herself onto her legs and is pleasantly surprised that they can bear weight, though one of her ankles is a bit tender. Nothing worse than any of the injuries Estinien has inflicted on her during their training sessions. She holds her hand a few ilms away from Erleanne’s face, and she feels her breath. At least she’s still alive.

Ichelle groans, “Please wake up.”

Erleanne doesn’t respond, and the sun is beginning its descent in the distance. Ichelle realizes she’s lost her bag, and that it’s not in their immediate vicinity. Without the food she’s stored away, they wouldn’t make it more than a few days.

“Please?” After nothing but silence, Ichelle accepts what she must do. Hoping she doesn’t have any severely broken bones, Ichelle lifts Erleanne off the ground and hoists her over her shoulder. Talking out loud, Ichelle tries to calm herself down, “this will all work out, she will wake up, and we won’t be stranded here. All I have to do is find my bag…”

She walks a couple malms before she spots it, her bag, on the ground.

Near a chocobo with his beak rustling through it.

“You! Get out of there!” The chocobo stops, turning to face the source of the noise. But unlike most chocobos Ichelle has experienced, this one reacts, instead of fear, with defensive rage. “Perfect. This is exactly what I needed.”

She tries to gently set down Erleanne, pretty sure she’ll be easier to defend with both arms open. But when she attempts to retrieve her lance, she undoes the buckle, and it falls to the ground in two pieces.

The chocobo charges and Ichelle takes a hit, not the worst one she’s ever taken, but she stumbles back. She grabs the part of the lance with the sharp end and tries to jab the bird with it, but without the entire pole, she can’t get the right leverage.

She’s going to die here, protecting an unconscious engineer, against an angry wild chocobo. Not even a particularly exciting way to go.

Ichelle holds up both halves of her lance defensively as the chocobo prepares for its second, and likely final, attack.

She closes her eyes and prepares for the worst, but it doesn’t come. Instead, she hears chittering.

An emerald carbuncle stands before her, staring down a now-retreating wild chocobo. A man’s voice sounds in the distance “Nicely done, Emmy!”

She spots him approaching, a half-elezen with light silver hair (and just the slightest tint of rose). His carbuncle bounds back towards him excitedly and he lets it jump into his arms, where he scratches it on the head. Ichelle looks back at Erleanne, still unconscious, and goes to pick her back up again. When she throws Erleanne over her shoulder, she notices the man is staring at her with his eyes wide.

“You’re pretty strong.”

Ichelle shrugs with her unoccupied shoulder. “A lot of training.”

He looks at her broken lance and nods. “You’re a dragoon. You must be from the Holy See, then.”

“Ah, where are my manners?” Ichelle carries Erleanne all the way to where he stands, “I’m Ichelle, and thank you for saving us.”

“Feldspar.” The carbuncle dematerializes, leaving just the three of them. “And it’s no bother. Us half-breeds have to watch out for one another, right?”

Ichelle smiles, not sure she cares enough to correct him on the precise percentage of elezen to hyur she actually possesses. “I suppose so. You wouldn’t happen to know where the nearest civilization is, would you?”

“You’re not far from it.” He points to the northwest, smirking. “I came to investigate when I saw an airship crash. There’s a reason people take the tunnel, the wind gusts that separate Dravania from Coerthas are strong to stop the corrupted aether from freezing the forest.”

“Is that common knowledge?” She asks, suddenly very irritated with the girl still unconscious on her shoulder.

“I’d imagine so.” He chuckles, “Is she your pilot?”

“She is. Unfortunately.”

“Has she been unconscious since you crashed?”

“I tried to wake her.”

“Can you set her back down again?” Ichelle nods, gently laying Erleanne out between the two of them. He pulls out a grimoire, casts Physick, and Erleanne immediately starts to stir. “She must have hit her head.”

Irritation replaced with concern, Ichelle watches intently as Erleanne returns to consciousness. When Erleanne opens her eyes, she winces.

“You saved me, yet again.”

“I can’t take the credit this time, I’m afraid.” Erleanne tries to lift herself up, but judging from the look of agony on her face, it must be too painful for her.

“You did carry her all this way.” Feldspar awards her, but Ichelle shakes her head.

“‘Twas nothing really.”

“You carried me?” Ichelle nods and Erleanne smiles through her wince, “Without even treating me to dinner first?”

Ichelle scowls and goes to retrieve her bag, despite it being heavily rummaged through by a wild chocobo. All of the food is gone, as she expected, but she hopes some of the medical supplies can be used.

When she returns, Feldspar hovers over Erleanne yet again. “Your ribs are broken. I can help.” Erleanne raises an eyebrow, suspicious of the unfamiliar man atop her.

“I don’t even-” He ignores her question, wasting no time mending the fractures. When he directs her to breathe deeply, she sighs in relief. “I should have never doubted you. You might be a better healer than my sister is.”

“I’m just happy I could help.” He holds out a hand, pulling her to her feet. “I did not catch your name, though.”

“Erleanne Augurelt, it’s a pleasure.” She shakes his already extended hand, and his eyes widen. “What?”

“Any relation to Urianger Augurelt?” He asks, pulling his hand away and vigorously flipping through his grimoire.

“He’s my father, why-”

He finds the page he was looking for and turns it around. “He was the original owner of this tome, I believe.”

“ _To my student, Urianger Augurelt. Keep open not only thy mind but also thy heart_." Erleanne reads aloud, fascinated. “This must be his old grimoire. The one he used before my mother made him a new one. I thought it went missing when we moved to Mor Dhona.”

Ichelle suddenly feels wobbly on her feet, nauseated, and with a sharp headache spreading through her temples and behind her eyes. She must have hit her head as well.

“Ichelle?” Noticing the sudden deterioration of Ichelle's health, Erleanne hands the grimoire back to its new owner and tries to rush to her side before she collapses.

* * *

_A young boy hides behind a partially-closed door, a half-elezen with just-barely-pink hair and wide eyes. A woman, a Seeker, sits across a table from a young adult Alphinaud Leveilleur._

_“He is as much family as any of my own.” She says, quietly. “I’m afraid I cannot do what you ask.”_

_Alphinaud’s face drops, and he stares at his hands sadly. “I understand, I had just hoped for a better outcome.”_

_The Miqo’te reaches across the table to rest her hand on his shoulder, “You are young yet, this is hardly your last opportunity.”_

_“If only I dared to say something years ago-”_

_“You were but a child yourself. Her heart was spoken for, and her mind made up, long before she sought me out.”_

_“I know.” He pulls the grimoire out of his bag, the one Erleanne and Feldspar had been inspecting before Ichelle fainted. “Can you give this to him when he’s older? It was going to be thrown away, and I thought he might appreciate it.”_

_“I’m sure he’ll love it.”_

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> If anyone is curious, I've meticulously photoshopped Ichelle, Zoisite, and Feldspar (in that order) into a photo together:
> 
> https://i.imgur.com/isJUde8.png


	4. Chapter 4

Ichelle regains consciousness on a bedroll, voices around her just barely audible. She sits up, noticing that all of the pain in her back is suddenly gone. How long had she been unconscious? She looks around the room and sees a seeker woman, an older version of the one from her dream, stirring a pot over a fire. Sitting cross-legged on the floor Erleanne is fussing over Ichelle’s lance and talking to herself. Finally, leaning against the wall and speaking to the Miqo’te is Feldspar, explaining something in a quiet voice.

The Miqo’te notices Ichelle’s waking before anyone else and smiles, interrupting Feldspar. “You gave my son and your friend quite a scare.”

Erleanne looks up from what she’s doing with her eyes wide. The look of genuine fear in Erleanne’s expression is surprising, especially since she’d collapsed after a fight between the two of them. Not that they often had conversations that weren't fighting. “Feldspar couldn’t get you to wake up! He tried healing you, but apparently, you suffered no injuries! Has this ever happened before?” Yes, Ichelle thinks, but she shakes her head.

“I’m not sure what happened.” She looks a bit more closely at the Miqo’te, “Do you know Alphinaud Leveilleur?”

The seeker looks taken aback by the question at first, but nods. “He has been known to stop in on his way through camp on occasion.”

“And you’re not Feldspar’s real mother, clearly,” Ichelle adds, but before the woman can answer, Feldspar narrows his eyes.

“She is in all of the ways that matter.” Defensively, he crosses his arms. “And after all of the hospitality she has afforded you, it seems rather rude to start asking personal questions.”

“Right. My apologies.” Ichelle crosses her legs and stands, walking over to the Miqo’te and holding out her hand. “My name is Ichelle,”

“I know, dearie.” She smiles and shakes Ichelle’s hand, “I’m Q’yantaa. Feldspar’s parentage has always been a sore spot of _his_ , not mine.”

Ichelle can somewhat relate. “So where am I exactly?”

“Tailfeather.” Erleanne pipes up, “It was only a short distance from where we crashed. Pretty good luck we had there.”

Ichelle smirks, “We wouldn’t have crashed if you hadn’t flown over the mountain range.”

“It seemed fine just looking at it!”

Q’yantaa clears her throat, “Where exactly are the two of you headed?”

“Anyx Trine.” They respond at the same time.

“Well, you’re not too far off.” She explains, “It’s a day trip from here, at the most, on foot.”

Erleanne declines the implicit suggestion, “I’d really rather fix my airship-”

“We don’t exactly have the luxury of time, Erleanne.” Ichelle reminds her. Every moment they’re out here is another they’re not in Ishgard fighting the conspirators.

With a look that reminds Ichelle eerily of her own mother, Q’yantaa turns to her son. “You could escort them tomorrow.”

Feldspar flashes his mother an insincere, tight-lipped smile. “I _could_.”

Sensing that he’s not thrilled about the idea, Ichelle objects. “We wouldn’t want to impose, especially not after all you’ve done for us already.”

“Nonsense. Feldspar hasn’t been to the Trine in far too long, anyway.” Q’yantaa pats his shoulder affectionately. “Why don’t the three of you set up a fire outside? I can spare a few bedrolls.”

Erleanne is the first to leave, Ichelle following after her, finding a spot far enough away from camp that she won’t accidentally set anything on fire, and starts to dig a hole. Feldspar joins the girls with an armful of logs and a mild scowl. When he offers them to Erleanne, she shakes her head.

Rustling through her bag, Ichelle notices something is missing. “I can’t find anything to start the fire with."

Erleanne laughs, perhaps a bit too loud, at Ichelle, and pulls out a packet of powder from her own bag. “This should do it. But I need something very hot to light it with.” Suspicious but out of her element, Ichelle steps back and lets Erleanne work. She pours out the powder into the freshly dug hole before rummaging through her bag again. She holds up what looks like a small explosive and grins. “You should, ah, take a step back.” When Feldspar just stares at her, Erleanne nods in his direction. “You too.”

Ichelle doesn’t question her and instead chooses to stay as far away from the fire pit as possible. After a loud crackling sound and a puff of smoke, Ichelle waits to see the result until Erleanne herself approaches the fire again. Ichelle looks down to see a smoldering liquid. Finally, Erleanne takes a few logs out of Feldspar’s arms and places them in the fire, looking satisfied with herself as they catch almost immediately. Feldspar raises an eyebrow, “Was that really necessary?”

“Considering our fire is built upon a base of rust shavings and aluminum, it won’t go out if it rains.”

Ichelle tries to hide how impressed she is and instead takes a seat in front of the fire, sitting on top of one of the bedrolls Q’yantaa so graciously donated to them. “So do you remember who gave you your grimoire, Feldspar?”

“Since apparently my irritation with you questioning my mother earlier did not tip you off, I would really rather not discuss my parents. Not now or ever.” He warns her, but she pushes anyway.

“I’m not asking about your parents, necessarily, but you have Erleanne’s father’s grimoire. Aren’t you curious how that came to be?”

Her own name piquing her interest, Erleanne glances over. “I’d really like to know as well. If you don’t mind sharing.”

He rolls his eyes, “I was young, maybe six summers old? He came and talked to my mother and then gave her the grimoire. I don’t remember what he said."

“What did he look like?” Erleanne asks, intrigued.

“He was an elezen, he had white hair in a braid. That’s all I remember.” Ichelle looks over at Erleanne who looks thoroughly shocked.

She whispers her uncle’s name under her breath and questions Ichelle, “How did you know to ask Q’yantaa about him?”

Ichelle tells a half-truth, “It was a hunch.”

Uncharacteristically, Erleanne goes silent, deep in thought, and Feldspar looks annoyed. “Are you done?”

Ichelle nods, “I’m sorry, I just needed to confirm my suspicions.”

“Wonderful. Glad you got that out of your system.” He rubs his eyes. “If it’s okay with you, I’m going to try to get some sleep.”

Admittedly, she still has questions, but Ichelle doesn’t voice them. She has a pretty solid suspicion who his father must be, but she doesn't voice that either.

She shakes her head. It doesn’t matter. Clearly, it doesn’t bother Feldspar at all, not knowing who his parents are. She has no reason to care either. At least she’s somewhat uncovered the mystery of her dream. Alphinaud would have, most certainly, passed through Ishgard before passing through Tailfeather. Maybe she remembers seeing him carrying the grimoire then? Also, Alphinaud himself wrote their travel itinerary based on his own expedition to the Trine with Zoisite and Estinien. Who is to say that he didn’t know Q’yantaa already, from a previous trip?

There were still too many unknowns. She has no reason to waste more time considering it.

As she curls up into the bedroll, she sneaks a glance at Erleanne. As Ichelle falls asleep, she wonders what to blame for the troubled look on the elezen’s face.

* * *

_Two nearly identical elezen girls, both with long white hair and golden eyes, sit on a bench, on either side of a younger Alphinaud Leveilleur._

_“Do you love Auntie Zoisite?” One of the girls asks, her eyes wide. Alphinaud chuckles._

_“Of course I do.” He reaches out his hand to rustle through the questioner’s hair. “Why do you ask?”_

_“Momma says that grown-ups have babies when they love each other. But you don’t.”_

_Alphinaud coughs, surprised, and the other girl glares across the bench at her sister. “Erleanne, that’s rude.”_

_He shakes his head, “It’s a fair question. For some, what your mother says is correct. Like for her and your father. But others prefer to wait.”_

_Satisfied with that answer, Erleanne nods, but Alphinaud’s expression changes to something more solemn._

_Alphinaud excuses himself, leaving the two girls behind. Erleanne’s sister looks downright livid._

_“You hurt his feelings!”_

_“I did not!” Erleanne pouts, “How would you even know?”_

_The other girl shakes her head and storms off after their uncle, leaving young Erleanne alone on the bench with her arms crossed._

* * *

_The Warrior of Light holds a blunt lance, practically a broom handle, and laughs at the girl, clearly Erleanne, on her back, clutching her own lance with a grimace on her face._

_“If someone comes after your shins or knees and you can’t block them, you need to jump. Otherwise, you’ll lose your balance and be out for a turn.” Zoisite explains and the girl nods. “Ready to try that again?”_

_Erleanne shakes her head vehemently. “I think I hurt my ankle.”_

_“Yeah, yeah. You’ll be fine. Get back up.” Erleanne flinches but nods, forcing herself to her feet but gingerly balancing her weight on one foot._

_The midlander waits for Erleanne to start and dodges the girl’s thrust, immediately going in for a leg sweep again. Unsurprisingly, when Erleanne attempts to jump, she can’t get the air needed to dodge it entirely, and instead, Zoisite’s lance hits Erleanne square in the injured ankle._

_With a cry, Erleanne collapses, and Zoisite immediately drops her lance, trying to calm the elezen down. “Erleanne, don’t panic. You’ll be fine.” The elezen nods, her breathing uneven and clearly on the verge of a sob. Zoisite notices an angry woman approaching them, presumably Erleanne’s mother, and apologizes. “Alisaie I’m so sorry-”_

_“Save it.” Alisaie looks down at her daughter clutching her ankle and sighs. “Can you walk on it?” Erleanne shakes her head. “How about move it?” Erleanne cries out in pain again, shaking her head to her mother’s second question as well. “It must be broken.”_

_“I’ll go find Krile.” Zoisite offers but Alisaie glares._

_“Haven’t you done enough already?” Grumbling under her breath, “I see why Alphinaud refuses to have children with you.”_

_Zoisite takes the insult well, not showing any outward signs of offense at the comment. She merely nods and watches as Alisaie picks her injured daughter up off the floor._

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> I'm setting up poor Alphinaud for a lot of angst here. I am apologizing in advance...


	5. Chapter 5

 “I wish I could do that with my hair.” Ichelle watches as Erleanne tucks a loose strand into an elaborate looking updo. The sun had yet to rise, leaving the intricacies of her handiwork hidden in the shadows.

“What, braid it?” Chuckling, Erleanne raises an eyebrow at her. “You don’t know how to braid your hair?”

Feldspar, meanwhile, continues bouncing around camp in the dark, picking up items for their day trip. Ichelle crosses her arms, still sitting on her bedroll in front of the soon-to-be-extinguished fire. She really ought to get up... the sun would be up soon, and they can’t afford to waste time.

“No one has ever taught me." Self consciously, Ichelle brushes through her tangles with her fingers. Erleanne stands and walks over to Ichelle’s bedroll, taking a seat next to her.

“Not even your mother?”

“My mother isn’t around very often.” Ichelle fidgets with her hands. “Can I tell you something?”

Erleanne apparently notes the change in tone and replaces her smirk with a more neutral expression. “Of course.”

“I think my parents married out of principle, rather than love.” She shrugs, “There’s no better way for the head of House Fortemps to show our position than to marry and have a child with a half-elezen from the Brume, you know?" Laughing darkly, Ichelle continues, "It's not as if I never see her, I just never see them together, and my father has always been the parent of the two of them..."

Ichelle turns around to face Erleanne, who frowns. “And you believe that's why you never see your mother?"

"It's a theory."

“She's too busy yelling at me and the rest of her underlings at the Manufactory, I'd imagine." Ichelle smiles fondly, it's probably true. “But I was more-or-less raised by my father as well,” Erleanne offers in solidarity. “Because my mother is so easily bored by domesticity, not because my parents don’t love each other.” She clarifies, “From my own experiences with Hilda, it seems that might be the case for her as well.”

Ichelle smiles, “I could see that. But it might be a tad optimistic. I don’t know that they’d tell me if they were having problems. All I can do is speculate.”

Erleanne touches Ichelle’s hair with no warning, catching her off guard. Gently combing through it with her fingers, she divides it into three bundles and begins weaving them together. “Well, until we’ve returned to somewhere with a mirror and a comb, I suppose I can put your hair up for you.”

Ichelle can feel her face turning red. She genuinely doesn’t know if she can handle this much contact again, especially not if Erleanne insists on literally breathing down her neck, but she finds herself going against her every rational thought. “I’d like that.”

Out of the corner of her eye, Ichelle spots Feldspar watching them from a distance, wearing an amused expression. She scowls at him and quickly covers up her face with her hand. For some reason, doesn’t want this random person they’ve met to assume anything.

“There! Perfect.” Erleanne stands, clearly pleased with her work. “You are a work of art, truly.” Giggling a bit, Erleanne continues her barrage of flattery, ”My skilled hands but helped enhance what was already perfection.”

Ichelle rolls her eyes, standing to finally help pack. “I’ll pretend your compliments are in earnest for the sake of my ego.”

“Why must you assume I'm insincere?” Erleanne practically sings, confirming her seriousness.

This girl will be the death of her.

* * *

 

“So why are the two of you traveling to Anyx Trine in the first place?” Feldspar breaks the comfortable silence, the three of them knee deep in the river that leads out of camp.

“Political drama.” Erleanne answers, shrugging.

“We believe that some younger members of the High Houses are plotting to assassinate some of the people responsible for bringing an end to the war. Including Vidofnir.” Ichelle elaborates, more annoyed than the matter-of-fact tone she was going for.

“That’s no good.” Feldspar remarks, “Problems between Ishgard and the wyrms are no good for us, either. We are somewhat at your mercy in that respect.” Clarifying, “ _Your_ meaning Ishgard’s, obviously.”

“Right. I just don’t understand why this is all happening. Not-” Ichelle yelps, almost slipping as she tries to follow Feldspar up the side of the riverbank. “Not now, at least.”

“It doesn’t make much sense, does it?” Feldspar muses, “You said it’s the young nobles starting trouble?”

Ichelle nods, “I’d think the opposite would happen, right? They have no reason to hate the Dravanians. It’s not as if Ciavant de Dzemael has ever seen his friend or comrade tore apart by a wyrm. Our fathers have, and they still accepted peace.”

“You two are missing the point.” Erleanne pipes up, “It’s not about dragons. It’s about power.”

“How can you say it’s not about dragons when they’ve threatened Vidofnir?”

Erleanne shrugs again, “I claim no expertise here, but I work day in and day out with these lesser noblemen, and it’s not the war they’re upset about. It’s Aymeric and the Scions and your family, Ichelle, for invalidating the High Houses. The war is just a more justified reason for their anger, even they realize that.” Erleanne shakes her head, "The resentment in these people when your mother gives them an order... they just can't believe a lowborn has the right."

“So what, they just expect the lowborn to go back to the Brume?” Ichelle scoffs.

Erleanne sighs. “It’s not as if they, personally, have anything to lose. Such is the nature of the rich...” Ichelle shifts uncomfortably. Ichelle supposes she, too, doesn’t personally have anything to lose. Except for basic decency.

“Sounds like a bunch of angry children if you ask me.” Feldspar comments, “And people are taking them seriously?”

Ichelle recalls her dream, the pink-haired woman preaching to a crowd, “The common folk likely see this as an opportunity to seek revenge for the lives lost in the war. It was them who were sent to die, after all.”

“I don’t know that they need to gather support the traditional way, they have an eye,” Erleanne points out.

“We don’t _know_ they have an eye.” Ichelle clarifies, and Feldspar looks deep in thought.

Erleanne protests, “You said yourself there’s no way Ciavant could have been so powerful.”

“Not even a wyrm’s eye is infallible.” Feldspar reassures them, “Your Warrior of Light possessed one as well, did she not?”

“How would you know that?” Ichelle asks, genuinely surprised.

“I’ve heard stories. Tailfeather isn’t _completely_ isolated from the rest of the realm.” Feldspar explains, too quickly, and changes the subject. “Watch out for the Nankas. They look harmless, but I assure you, they aren’t.”

Ichelle narrows her eyes, knowing there’s more to it than that, but she nods as well. “Right. We will be sure to do that.”

Erleanne happily follows the half-elezen through the brush, carrying her boots in one hand, her legs still wet from the river. Apparently, _she_ trusts Feldspar.

In two days at most, they’ll all go their separate ways, and she won’t have to deal with them anymore. In the meantime, Ichelle just tries not to focus on the feeling of her wet socks rubbing against her raw ankles.

* * *

Ichelle can’t help but laugh at Erleanne’s discomfort around the residents of the Trine. This is perhaps the first time Ichelle knew what she was doing, and Erleanne did not, and Ichelle will certainly bring it up again when they do not have such pressing business to attend to. When Vidofnir sniffs the elezen as a greeting, Erleanne recoils in fear, and Ichelle can't help but snicker a bit.

“Thou art before me to warn of malcontent in Ishgard, I presume.” Vidofnir’s voice booms, as Ichelle remembers it from her childhood.

“You’re _already aware_?” Erleanne sounds frustrated, waving her hands wildly as she speaks.

“Yes, there has been word of Nidhogg’s brood allying with Ishgardians, one, in particular, offering his strength to aid their cause.”

“Do you know why?” Ichelle demands, she still can’t quite understand the reasoning. Why would Nidhogg’s brood need help from Ishgard? Wouldn’t they be better off just attacking the city directly?

“Mayhaps you remember the fate that befell your Azure Dragoon,” Vidofnir begins and Ichelle nods, “Mortals have envied the power contained in our eyes since the moment of their arrival. A proverb, of sorts, has been known to our kind for centuries. In your tongue, ‘ _When a man acquires an eye, he possesses great power. When a man acquires both, he possesses none_.’”

“I don’t understand,” Ichelle admits, and the dragon simply peers at her curiously.

“Focus on my words, child, and thou wilst reveal thy own answers.”

 Ichelle looks to Erleanne, who seems clueless, and to Feldspar, whose eyes are downcast.

“Focus on your words...” Ichelle repeats and stares intently at the dragon in front of her, following Vidofnir's orders.

* * *

_The white feathered wyrm groans with pain. Hraesvelgr, if Ichelle’s memory serves correctly. Nidhogg casts aside a disembodied wing._

_“Thou art weak, Hraesvelgr -- a slithering wyrm who fawneth on the vermin who should rightly be his prey. For a thousand years have I fought without cease -- and thou didst think to prevail against me?”_

_“Glory not in thy victory, shade. The battle… is not yet won. My power -- and my hope -- have I entrusted to another…” Hraesvelgr opens his eyes to reveal empty sockets, a short dragoon in full armor standing before the missing eye._

_“Thine eye! What hast thou done!?” Nidhogg chides, “Fool! Thou wouldst trust a moral with thy strength?” Turning to face the dragoon, “I know thee. ‘Twas thou who didst intrude upon my lair and best the half of me. But now I am whole, and naught in creation may deny me my vengeance!”_

_The Warrior of Light steps forward, now fused with Hraesvelgr’s eye. Ichelle recognizes this battle from stories. The fight with Nidhogg on the Steps of Faith. The technicalities of how Zoisite managed to best Nidhogg after everyone else had failed suddenly reveal themselves as she uses the eye to defeat Nidhogg yet again._

_The dragon transforms, taking the shape of a blood-bathed dragoon, eyes melded onto the armor. Alphinaud shouts out his name, “Estinien!”_

_“Is this… to be… mine end?” Nidhogg’s voice, not Estinien’s, comes from the form. “Nay, I will not allow it… I am of the first brood… I am vengeance incarnate… I am Nidhogg! Thou shalt die by my hand!”_  
_But as he raises his lance, he falters, the voice changes, “This is not your hand, wyrm!”_

_His gloves around his neck, “Thou… wilt… obey.”_

_Estinien, not Nidhogg, faces Zoisite. “I would ask one last favor of you, Warrior of Light… Finish me-- now, while I have the beast subdued.”_

_Alphinaud and Zoisite share a look and nod, running to Estinien’s side, but rather than ending him, as Estinien had asked, they each grab onto an eye, pulling it from his armor. As the eyes finally separate from Estinien, the soul of the Wyrm exits, leaving no trace except Estinien’s body unconscious on the ground and the eyes in either of their hands._

* * *

 

As soon as she returns to reality, Ichelle shares her conclusion, “We can’t stop them without an eye of our own.”

“I would offer one of my own, but I am afraid thou wilst require the eye of a great wyrm to defeat Nidhogg’s broodling.”

“Thank you,” Ichelle smiles sadly at the dragon, “For the sentiment and the information.”

“Contained within thee is all the information you seek. You need only find it.” Ichelle nods slowly, skeptical. “I wish the three of you safe travels.”

The long descent down the staircase leads them to the ground floor, dragons of all ages occupying space and resting. The three of them walk in awkward silence, Ichelle and Feldspar deep in thought. When they finally reach the forest again, Erleanne interrupts.

“So, _what_ in the Twelve’s name happened back there?”

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> CES is over!! I can finally ~~level~~ write again!


	6. Chapter 6

“I don’t know. I just… thought, and then I was there. Zoisite’s battle with Nidhogg,” Ichelle summarizes.  
Erleanne’s face is a mix of shocked and excited.

“What?”

“You have the Echo!” Erleanne exclaims. “I knew it! I should have known the first time you fainted!”

“What-”

“My sister has the Echo too. Gods, she will be so relieved to find out that someone else has the Echo and also has any sort of affinity for combat…”

“That’s impossible,” Ichelle explains. “Why would Hydaelyn choose someone like me?”

“Who knows?” Erleanne seems pretty pleased with herself for the revelation.

“Echo or no, we need to get back to camp before dark,” Feldspar reminds them. “And that means not slowing down to talk about irrelevant nonsense.”

“What has gotten into him?” Erleanne whispers to Ichelle. Ichelle wonders the same, but is thankful for the change in topic. She shrugs.

* * *

By the time Ichelle wakes, both Erleanne and Feldspar are already elsewhere. The embers of the fire are still hot, but the sun is up, and the rest of camp is already starting their day. Chocobos are being packed with supplies; hunters are gearing up. She barely has time to register her consciousness before she’s being beckoned by Feldspar’s mother.

“You have somewhere to be, girl?” She asks, impatiently. Ichelle shakes her head. “Then you can help with chores. Up you go.”

Ichelle reluctantly stands and walks towards the miqo’te. Q’yantaa clears her throat and points back to the bedroll, still unfolded. “Right.” Ichelle sighs and returns, haphazardly rolling up the mat before tying something resembling a bow around it to keep it from unrolling.

She follows Q’yantaa into the house, finding Feldspar and Erleanne’s pristinely rolled and tied in a neat pile. Hers is at least twice in size, and not because the bedding itself is any more voluminous. Embarrassed, she adds it to the stack.

“First things first, we need to get dinner going,” Q’yantaa explains.

“So early?” Ichelle rubs her eyes.

“Cooking for a whole camp takes a few bells. Hells, I ought’ve started long before you woke up. But my help is off finding supplies for your friend to fix her airship.”

It explains why Q’yantaa’s kitchen looks more like an operation than any typical house. Especially one with hardly any furniture otherwise. “So what do you need me to do?”

She gestures to half a dozen sacks piled up next to a counter. “Peel and cut the popotos, carrots, and onions. I need to clean and butcher the goat.”

Ichelle rustles through a bag and pulls out a popoto, placing it on the counter. She grabs the knife, large and sharp, and contemplates how to go about removing the skin of the vegetable. She holds it end to end her left hand and starts cutting with her right, towards herself, and Q’yantaa practically wrestles the knife out of her hands when she sees what Ichelle is doing.

“By the Fury, girl!” Q’yantaa shouts, waving the knife around. “Are you trying to cut your fingers off?”

“I-” Ichelle looks at the woman guiltily, “I’ve never done this before.”

“You’ve never cut a gods-damned popoto? What do they even teach you in Ishgard?” She shakes her head in complete disbelief.

“Can you show me?” Ichelle asks, sheepishly. Q’yantaa’s irritation softens.

“Obviously.” Sighing, the miqo’te grabs a different knife, a smaller one. “Lesson number one. Never cut towards yourself. Ever.” She sternly repeats herself, “Ever. Understand?” Ichelle nods.

“Second, you need to use the right tool for the right job. This knife,” Q’yantaa holds up the knife Ichelle had been using, “is for chopping. This one,” she holds up the smaller knife, “is for peeling. Now watch.” She demonstrates, cutting the ends off of a new popoto and gently slicing away from herself, removing the skin before rotating it and doing it again.

“Seems easy enough.” Ichelle holds her hand out for the knife. After a long moment, the miqo'te hands it over.

Her second attempt goes a lot better. She still fumbles, a bit, but at the end, she has a perfectly peeled popoto and is extraordinarily proud of herself.

“Don’t look so excited,” Q’yantaa reminds her. Ichelle downgrades her grin to a more subtle smile, her lips together.

* * *

“Can I try?” Ichelle watches as Q’yantaa mends a pair of hempen kecks, thoroughly distracted from her own job of washing dirty clothes.

The woman eyes Ichelle for a moment, judging her seriousness in the offer. “There’s still a whole lot of laundry to be washed.”

“I can do both!” Ichelle breaks out the eyes she typically reserves for her father when she really wants something. Q’yantaa just gives her an annoyed and skeptical look in return.

“Put the pup eyes away. You can try, but not on kecks. Maybe a sack.” Ichelle accepts this, nodding once. Q’yantaa disappears for a few moments, returning with a torn bag, still full of the outermost layers of a few onions.

Ichelle takes the needle, already threaded, and tries to imitate the miqo’te. She’s surprised at how easy it is, much more comfortable than cutting the vegetables. When she’s done, it looks as if the sack was never torn at all.

She shows it to the older woman for approval, who inspects the stitching more closely. “You said you’ve never done this before?” Ichelle shakes her head. “Hmph.”

“So I did a good job?” Ichelle’s eyes light up, and Q’yantaa smirks.

“It’s passable, for a highborn girl.”

Ichelle’s brows furrow. “How-”

“You’ve got it written all over you, sweetheart.” Q’yantaa takes back her needle. “I won’t tell Feldspar. If you’re tryin’ to keep it secret, that is.”

All of her pride suddenly drained from her, Ichelle sighs. “I wish it weren’t so obvious.”

“It doesn’t make a difference to me. You still cut carrots and washed everyone’s dirty underclothes like the rest of us.”

“Do you do this every day?” Ichelle finally asks the question weighing on her. “For the whole camp?”

“Aye.” Q’yantaa shrugs. “Needed something to do in my retirement.”

“Retirement? But you’re so young.” Q’yantaa scoffs and Ichelle continues, “So you were a hunter?”

“I was, and a damn good one.” She sighs wistfully. “Then my partner had to go and get himself killed. I figured I ought to put up the bow for good, then. Take care of our kids.” It hadn’t occurred to Ichelle that Q’yantaa might have children besides Feldspar. The miqo’te smiles. “You can ask.”

“So he was your lover then?”

“For half a dozen suns, we were just partners. Feldspar’s birth mother actually brought us together, found a useless bloody flower for me.” She laughs. “I was about your age. He didn’t want to be my hunting partner because he couldn’t watch another partner die. Real ironic, ain't it?”

“Wait,” Ichelle interrupts, “you knew Feldspar’s mother?”

“I had a feeling you’d fixate on that.” Ichelle winces apologetically. “Like I said, she came around when I was looking for a new partner and helped me work through the list.”

“So how did you end up with Feldspar, if you don’t mind me asking?” Ichelle lowers her voice, self-conscious that perhaps Feldspar might be lurking outside and hear her question.

”A season or two after we met, she stopped through on her way to the Trine. Her belly was so swollen she could hardly walk. She told me her story, and I was moved to tears.” Q'yantaa smiles sadly, “She couldn’t keep him. Too painful and too dangerous. I thought I’d never have kids of my own, so far away from my Nunh, so I offered to take him before she even asked.”

“Interesting.” Ichelle genuinely means that. Why would she have been on her way to the Trine? Did she expect the dragons to raise him? She has more questions than she knows she has the right to ask.

“But that’s in the past, and we have chores to finish.”

* * *

“ _Gods_ , Q’yantaa, I’m so sorry.”

Ichelle watches as the young elezen boy, dressed in full hunter's gear and no older than Ichelle herself, sobs, apologizing over and over again. “It’s not your fault.” Q’yantaa remains unsettlingly stoic, reassuring him. “Did you bury her at least?” She asks, the faintest hint of emotion detectable in her voice.

“There was nothing left. The bandersnatch-”

Something about this seems wrong to Ichelle, but she’s not sure why. It may be the boy’s body language, more scared than sad. The absence of a body. A feeling in her gut. “Shhhh.” Q’yantaa pulls him in for a hug, rubbing his back. “She won’t be the first partner you’ll lose, boy. You need to toughen up if you’re going to make it out here.”

He hiccups and Ichelle feels something like an itch in her brain, something just too deep to scratch. She focuses on identifying the cause, picking away at her memories until she finds something seemingly blocked off, just beyond her reach.

Picking at it, she feels unsteady on her feet, focuses more intently on the boy standing in front of her.

_An older man stands with the boy, shoving something in his pocket. “You just have to follow through on your end, and I’ll follow through on mine.”_

_“What are you going to do to her?” The boy asks, and the man laughs._

_“I have a client back in Ul’dah with a fixation for girls like her.” The boy looks at his feet. “There’s only a handful of ‘em in all of Eorzea.”_

Ichelle glares at the boy currently clutching Q’yantaa’s chest. Interrupting, Ichelle grabs him by the collar, yanking him away from the woman with as much force as she can manage. “Where did you take her?”

“I already explained-”

“And none of that was true. Where did you take her?”

“I don’t-”

“Listen.” Ichelle pulls him closer to her so that she can stare him in the eyes. “There might still be time to fix this. Where is she?”

The boy closes his eyes and nods. Q’yantaa growls, “What is she talking about?”

“I lead her to the border.”

Ichelle drops him, letting him fall to the ground before immediately heading back to Q’yantaa’s house, the miqo’te following behind her. “My lance. Erleanne was fixing it when I passed out. Do you know where she put it?”

“Where are you going?” Ichelle spots the lance on the ground and picks it up, inspecting the break. It’s not as strong as it was before she broke it, but it would have to do.

“Hopefully, to save your daughter.”

* * *

“You’re lucky I don’t keep you for myself.” The man from her vision remarks to the young girl, her arms bound behind her back at the wrists. She doesn’t respond, but her expression is a mix of defiance and fear. “I’m sure you’re quite the piece when you’re cleaned up.”

Ichelle tightens her grip on her lance, watching to see if he faces away for just long enough for Ichelle to get a strike in from his flank. They’re still on the Dravania side of the passage... so he might be waiting for something. Ichelle isn’t sure she wants to stick around and find out what, or who, that might be.

Abandoning any stealth, she jumps at him, her lance shattering at its weak point as soon as it strikes him in the chest, not enough to even puncture. At most, it would likely bruise.

“Mind your own business, girl, before I get angry.” He warns Ichelle, but she grabs half of her lance and looks to the half-miqo’te. She doesn’t acknowledge Ichelle, appearing too shocked to do much of anything.

“You let her go before I beat you to death with this thing,” Ichelle warns, and the man laughs.

“I’d like to see you try.”

Ichelle takes the challenge, whipping him across the face with the spearhead. He recoils, shocked. In his confusion, she’s able to knee him in the groin as hard as she can, and he collapses.

She doesn’t wait to see what he does, taking advantage of the few seconds he’s distracted to untie the girl. When she doesn’t respond at first, Ichelle shakes her by the shoulders. “Come on. We need to get out here.”

“Don’t you dare-” The man groans in pain and Ichelle lifts the girl to her feet.

“I know this is hard. But your mom and brother are waiting for you back at camp, and you need to run, okay?”

“You’re not coming with me?” She finally speaks, and Ichelle shakes her head.

“There’s no time. Run as fast as you can back to camp. I’ll take care of him.”

The girl nods, taking off towards Tailfeather.

The man staggers back to his feet and Ichelle scowls. She has unfinished business.

* * *

Ichelle bursts into the room, still injured from battle, but desperate to confirm that the girl returned safely. Erleanne is the first to greet her, wrapping her arms around Ichelle’s upper body and squeezing tightly. “When you didn’t come back-”

“How did you even know I was gone? Where were you?” Erleanne shakes her head.

“Long story.”

“Thank you, Ichelle,” Q’yantaa interrupts. Feldspar looks up from observing his sister, who is sleeping on the floor with her arms wrapped tightly around herself. “I would have taken that boy at his word, and Yhone would have been gone forever.” Ichelle shrugs.

Feldspar looks back at Yhone, concerned, and mutters, “She’s still… shaken.” Ichelle nods knowingly and he frowns. “She’s a proud girl. For her to be outsmarted and overpowered like that, it’ll be a while before she’s back to her normal self.”

 _If she ever is,_  Ichelle thinks to herself, shifting uncomfortably. Suddenly, she feels claustrophobic, like the air is too thick to breathe and the temperature is so high that she’s sweating. She has to get out of there.

She smiles politely before spinning around on her heels, walking straight outside with no other announcement. She tries to breathe in the fresh air but her chest tightens, and she can hardly get enough oxygen to relieve the dizzy feeling. It’s been suns since Ichelle has been like this. How did she deal with it before?

She runs, so fast her legs burn, to somewhere just far enough outside of camp that she feels alone. She finds a grassy ledge overlooking Tailfeather and takes a seat, catching her breath. She digs her hands into the grass, reminding her where she is, and more importantly where she is not, and the unsettled feeling returns to its rightful place, buried deep within her.

Ichelle hears footsteps behind her, but she can’t bring herself to tear her eyes away from the camp beneath her. Everyone is preparing for bed, only a few windows remain lit. She’ll miss Tailfeather. Q’yantaa especially.

“Mind some company?” Ichelle turns to see Erleanne staring down at her, a hint of fatigue in her voice. She’s surprised the girl followed her all the way out here, especially after she so abruptly left. Ichelle pats the ground next to her.

Erleanne joins her, dangling her feet over the edge of the cliff with a lot more animation than her dragoon companion. When Ichelle notices this, she smiles to herself.

“You know, you really surprised me today,” Erleanne starts. “What you did for that girl…”

“You would have done the same,” Ichelle dismisses, “It was the right thing to do.”

“I misjudged you.” Erleanne smiles apologetically. “I thought you were this spoiled girl who happened to be skilled with a lance and thought yourself better than the rest of us, but you’re not. You care about people. I’m sorry for ever assuming otherwise.”

Ichelle chuckles, “I am that person, though.” She breaks eye contact with the other girl and looks back at the camp. “I’m spoiled and unapproachable and naive. There’s so much I don’t know. The longer we’re out here, the more I realize that.”

“You’ve learned a lot in the past few days. Don’t be so hard on yourself.” Erleanne pats Ichelle on the shoulder reassuringly but leaves her hand there. Ichelle looks towards her shoulder and the point of contact between the two of them, followed by the owner of said hand digging ever so slightly into the fabric of her shirt. “All things considered, I think you’re amazing.”

“Do you mean _doing_ amazing?” Ichelle smirks, expecting an eye roll or a retort.

“That too.”

The next few moments happen quickly. Ichelle’s eyes flicker to Erleanne’s lips for only a split-second, which Erleanne must take as her cue. The elezen grabs both of the dragoon’s shoulders and pulls her in, capturing Ichelle’s lips with her own.

When Erleanne pulls away, Ichelle is in a daze. She can vaguely recognize a questioning look on Erleanne’s face, waiting for Ichelle to react.

“Wha-”

“Stop thinking,” Erleanne interrupts her. “Do you want to kiss me again?”

Ichelle licks her lips and nods.

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> I can't be the only one who did the Q'yantaa/Hudde side quests and was like "awww, I ship it" right? Right???


	7. Chapter 7

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> What Erleanne and Feldspar were up to in Chapter 6

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> I thought I'd take a moment to PSA that this fic is "Chose not to warn" and not "No archive warnings apply." I'll add warnings as they specifically become relevant, but I'm also trying not to spoil anything. Proceed at your own risk, though I can assure you there will be nothing graphic, it's still Teen-rated. Thanks for reading!

Erleanne gives up on trying to sleep, allowing herself to open her eyes and watch the sky above her. It’s so dark and quiet this far away from the nearest city, and without the aetherical corruption she’s grown up with in Mor Dhona, she’s blown away by how bright the stars are. Though she’s been dragged to all corners of Eorzea, Dravania is foreign to her, seemingly untouched by the Calamity. Though she supposes that the dragons deserve the credit, there.

She couldn’t help but watch Ichelle, either. While a part of Erleanne is annoyed by her presence, she’s grown somewhat fond of the novice dragoon. She finds her naivete tedious, and her standoffish attitude a bit off-putting, but can’t help but be impressed by her snarky remarks and self-confidence.

As Ichelle tosses and turns throughout the night, somewhat violently, Erleanne wonders if there’s a bit more to that standoffish attitude than she assumed.

Feldspar also abandons any hope of sleeping as the first hint of the sun peeks over the horizon, fully aware that Erleanne has also been awake all night. Yawning, “You mentioned a need for airship parts.”

“If we plan on going anywhere further than a couple hundred malms in less than a bell, I’d advise in favor of that, yes,” Erleanne spoke softly, trying not to wake Ichelle.

“Well, we aren’t going to find anything around here.” He runs his hand through his hair, “we could head back towards Ishgard-”

“-No!” Erleanne interrupts. “If we do that, they probably won’t let us leave again. Our objective was to warn Vidofnir, after all, and we have technically fulfilled that requirement already…”

“Not ready to go home just yet?” Feldspar glances at Ichelle with a grin. Erleanne rolls her eyes.

“I just know that we are onto something, and if the Scions get involved, there’ll be an all-out war.” Erleanne grumbles.

“Of course.” He winks before collecting some things from around the campfire. “In that case, our best chance is with Idyllshire.”

Erleanne lights up at this, jumping up and collecting her own things urgently. “You mean what used to be Sharlayan?”

“You’ve heard of it?” Feldspar seems surprised.

“My mother was born there. And my father was from Sharlayan, but not the colony. I’ve always been curious.”

“Its residents can be a bit… peculiar,” Feldspar warns. Erleanne shakes her head dismissively.

“That’s true of everywhere.”

* * *

“Well, well, well.” The Midlander peeks out from behind her counter, staring at the two teenagers curiously. “I couldn’ta imagined a less likely pair of welps to walk through those doors.”

Erleanne takes a step back, her eyes wide in shock. “Rowena? What-”

“I’ve a second business ‘round these parts. Split my time between the two.” Rowena furrows her brows. “Yer an awfully long ways away from home.”

“I’m looking for airship parts-”

“Feldspar here ain’t your boyfriend, is he?” She asks, interrupting Erleanne’s explanation and looking between the two of them with a worried look.

Erleanne immediately shakes her head, “No! Of course not! We only just met…” She leaves out her suspicion that he might be her cousin, one that Rowena’s strange demeanor is only reaffirming.

Rowena hums judgmentally, narrowing her eyes as she looks to Feldspar. “Well, he of all people knows I can get yer hands on the finest airship parts the realm has to offer.” Rowena crosses her arms. “For a price.”

“Yeah, yeah. Just point us in the right direction.” Feldspar sighs as he pulls a tie out of his bag and uses it to put up his hair.

“And yer both armed?” Rowena asks Erleanne, who nods, pulling her smaller pistol out of her pocket and setting it down on the counter matter of factly. Rowena nods before looking over the counter and raising her eyebrow at the Emerald Carbuncle standing at Feldspar’s feet. “‘s not yer usual rat.”

“I thought she might be feeling neglected. Besides, it’s hardly your concern...”

“‘m just curious, is all,” Rowena smirks a little as she flips through a large notebook. “‘an you can put away yer fake accent. It ain’t charming,” She teases.

Erleanne looks over at Feldspar curiously, who huffs a bit, crossing his arms as he makes his impatience known, “I thought you had a job for us.”

Rowena nods, scanning a page before settling on a line. “Yer favorite, in fact. A couple of tomes from Gubal.” She tears off the bottom portion of the page and folds it neatly, sliding it across the counter. “You can even snag some for yer own collection.”

“Thanks.” Feldspar takes the note, his annoyance clear in his tone. “Let’s go, Erleanne.”

Erleanne blinks, following after Feldspar as he abruptly turns to leave the room. “Wait, when she said _Gubal_ , she didn’t happen to mean the monster-infested library, did she?”

* * *

“You’ve been here before?” Erleanne asks as Feldspar casts a different summon spell.

“Yes…” Emerald disappears, followed by the flicker of aether and materialization of another carbuncle - one Erleanne recognizes immediately. After the initial shock, she reminds herself that Feldspar does have her father’s grimoire, so it would only make sense he’d be able to summon an Amber carbuncle as well. “Ready?”

Erleanne clutches her pistol between both hands and nods. “Had I known we’d be actually fighting, I would have brought my gunspear instead…”

“Oh, is that how you and Ichelle met? A shared fondness for the lance?” Feldspar asks, more amused-sounding than he intended.

“Not exactly. Though we did both study under either former Azure Dragoon.” Erleanne shrugs, eyeing the door suspiciously. “And let’s get this over with, we can chat later.”

Feldspar nods, shouldering the door open and setting Amber loose on the room, pulling all of the monsters into its center. “Oh no, keep talking. I’m curious. We can do both.” Feldspar casts miasma and spreads it across all dozen of the monsters before turning back to Erleanne with a raised eyebrow. “How did you two meet?”

“I had stumbled into her home looking for the Warrior of Light, and Ichelle’s father found me instead.” Erleanne fires off a few shots, finishing off the monsters in the room. “I also just started working for her mother, so I guess it was only a matter of time... Do you know where these books are located or are we just supposed to check every single one we find?”

Feldspar pulls out the slip of paper and scans over it, humming in thought. “Second floor. It shouldn’t take too long to get there… it’s only been a few moons since I’ve been here last.”

“Moons?” Erleanne groans. “This place fills up this quickly in moons?”

“Well, sometimes I don’t engage, I just run and hope nothing catches me.” Feldspar shrugs, continuing forward. “How long ago was this? When you and Ichelle met, that is?”

“A few days?” Erleanne speculates. Feldspar makes a ' _hmph'_  sound, slightly less judgmental than the one they received earlier from Rowena.

“You’re awfully close for only knowing each other for a few days…” Feldspar smirks.

“No, we aren’t.” Erleanne protests, her eyebrows furrowed. “I hardly know her.”

The two of them are relieved to find the next room empty and pick up their pace as they talk. “She likes you.” Feldspar points out with a chuckle.

Erleanne scoffs. “She doesn’t even like the fact that I _exist_.”

“You don’t see the way she looks at you when she thinks no one can see her.” Feldspar points out, grinning. “It’s obvious. And judging entirely by how defensive you are, I’d say it’s mutual.”

“You hardly know us!”

“I don’t need to. I can tell.” Feldspar smiles smugly as he walks backward. “And if I’m going to be spending all of this time with the two of you, I don’t know if I can handle the tension. It even makes my carbuncles uncomfortable.” Amber quirks her head at that.

“You’re wrong.” Erleanne scoffs again, blushing furiously. “I seriously doubt _she_ has any genuine interest in _me_.”

Feldspar stops at that. “But you’re not denying that you like her?”

Sighing, “I wish I didn’t.”

“Why?”

“Because she has a reputation. And not a good one. Not that I usually believe rumors, but nearly everyone in Ishgard says she’s full of herself, or desperate for attention, or…”

Feldspar shifts uncomfortably before crossing his arms. “You’ve known her for a few days now, does any of it seem true?”

“Not really, no.” Erleanne shakes her head and abruptly changes the subject. “Let’s just get these books. And leave."

* * *

Rowena does them one better, offering a mostly-functional, albeit small, Garlean airship as payment, with plenty of airship parts for Erleanne to scavenge from… once they’ve flown it back to camp.

Feldspar practically kisses the ground at their return. Erleanne chuckles. “I’m a _great_ pilot, so you can stop with that.”

“If that’s so, I’d hate to fly with a bad-” Feldspar is cut off from his thought by the sight of his younger sister sprinting past him silently and into their house.

“What do you think-” Erleanne starts, but when they both can clearly hear Q’yantaa sob from inside, they know it can’t be anything good.


End file.

**Author's Note:**

> This takes place after Chapter 27 of In Time, and in some cases well after the events of the fic altogether. I strongly recommend you read In Time before reading this, or you might be very confused! Also worth pointing out, this will be heavily non-linear, though I'll do my best to orient the chapters as I go.
> 
> I took some liberties with Ascian lore here. It seems pretty obvious to me that Elidibus is not going to survive Stormblood, so I created another character to take his place. I've also gone with the interpretation that being an Ascian is comparable to being a Scion, while only a subset of those groups are gifted by either Hydaelyn or Zodiark, and not everyone with those gifts are necessarily affiliated with either faction explicitly. Given what we know so far this seems plausible to me.
> 
> Anyway, enough rambling. This will be updated every other day, alternating with my other fic, Dragonsong. Enjoy!

Urianger waits until Alisaie is asleep, re-reading the letter he’d received that morning to ensure that he’s not wasting his efforts.

_“There is something we must discuss, that which you may prefer to keep undocumented. I bid you join me among the Singing Shards at midnight.”_

He begrudgingly forces himself out of bed, carefully untangling Alisaie’s limbs from his own. She seems unbothered by this, and he celebrates silently, his sixteen years of practice sneaking out of bed to get work done, unsuccessfully, finally paying off at this moment.

A familiar white-clad figure greets him at the entrance of the Stones, facing town rather than the tavern Urianger is exiting. “Were the Singing Shards but conveniently befitting of thy ominous invitation?”

“I was worried you would choose not to join me after all.”

“‘Tis rather fortunate I discovered thee, rather than Alphinaud or the Warrior of Light.”

“Fortunate for me or fortunate for you?” The white-robed Ascian chuckles, “Can’t have the Scions aware of our correspondence.” Urianger resists the urge to sigh, instead crossing his arms defiantly. “I shall meet you at our scheduled location, now that I know you are awake.”

Without even a flash, the Ascian dematerializes, leaving Urianger alone in the night of Mor Dhona, annoyed. This is one of the many reasons Urianger found himself missing Elidibus. While he had his flaws, he at least made an effort to remain succinct. The relatively new Emissary, in contrast, is much more abrasive and condescending. If it were not for the value this partnership offered the Scions, Urianger would not bother. Despite the Emissary's insinuations otherwise, if the Scions were aware of what and who to thank for the peace over the last decade, they would likely be grateful.

He arrives at the Singing Shards already impatient, finding the Emissary leaning against a particularly energetic crystal shard. “On what matter didst thou wish to speak?”

“Ah. You’ve arrived.” Urianger nods, though the Ascian isn't even looking his way. “Have you heard any news from Sharlayan, lately?” Urianger thinks. He’s heard nothing out of the ordinary. “Nay? Not even pertaining your dear daughter and the company she keeps?”

Urianger is genuinely surprised by this topic. The Emissary is hardly one for gossip. “‘Tis little my concern with whom my daughter chooses to share her time.”

“Interesting.” The Ascian stands up straight, a smirk working its way onto his face. “Perhaps it is because of your _lack of interest_ that your child has chosen to seek comfort in one of mine.” After a moment of stunned silence, he continues. “I’ve known you for a long time, Urianger. For your own daughter to turn against her own parents’ organization, I can’t help but wonder where you went wrong. Perhaps-”

“I suggest thee carefully consider thy next words…”

As his smirk transforms into a grin, the Ascian shakes his head. “I did not come here to taunt you, Urianger, as amusing as it may be.” Urianger narrows his eyes. “My concern is not only for your daughter but rather my new initiate, with whom she is quite taken.”

“She is just a child.” Urianger loses his composure for a moment, spitting his words in disgust.

“As is he. A very idealistic one. Only fifteen summers old himself. Upon discovering his gift, he immediately began proposing reform.” Urianger is surprised by how the Emissary seems proud... as if he truly saw his underlings as his own children. “It is no wonder that he sought out a bright and empathetic young woman. He and Edrianne have the potential to enact real change.”

“And on what grounds dost thou believest him to be a cause for concern?”

“The two of them walk a dangerous path, and as you know, both my master and yours can be cruel and unforgiving.” Urianger can hardly deny that. Hydaelyn has been known to strike down Her own followers, no more or less often than Zodiark. “But more importantly, it is my experience that the strong-willed, intelligent, and earnest young Ascians are the most prone to losing control as they grow closer to our master. Zodiark does not tolerate insubordination, and when He catches wind of any betrayal, retaliates subtly, by offering ultimatums and presenting logically sound arguments. If those fail, He often drives them to insanity. Many of our new recruits, particularly the Eorzeans, have tried and failed at what he and your daughter attempt.” He sighs, “It is for that reason I thought it prudent to warn you. Edrianne is still a child, it is well within your power to stop her, should you prefer to spare her this fate.”

Urianger doesn’t even consider what the Emissary offers. He knows firsthand what it’s like to be questioned and doubted. His daughter may be prone to listening to her heart rather than her mind, but in many ways, she is wiser than Urianger himself. What she needs from her father is silent trust, someone for her to fall back on if she doubts herself, but not someone to oversee her every move. He shakes his head and the Emissary shrugs.

“Fair enough, but do not expect me to keep you updated as this unfolds. I have much better things to do than keep tabs on a couple of adolescents.”

He suspects this is untrue, but Urianger nods in agreement. After a few seconds, the Emissary disappears into the night again, leaving Urianger alone with his thoughts.

If he feels overwhelmed, he can only imagine how Edrianne must feel.


	2. Chapter 2

Upon returning to the Rising Stones a newly married man, Alphinaud first questions his sister as delicately as he is able, “How is Edrianne?”

Alisaie sighs angrily, a reaction that no one in attendance, spare Urianger, would have expected. “It is hard to tell, considering that she has hardly left her room since we’ve returned from Ishgard.”

“Must you be so insensitive?” The Warrior of Light asks, offended on Edrianne’s behalf.

“Perhaps if she allowed her family to help her, I would afford her more sympathy.”

“She has hardly barricaded herself away,” Urianger argues, sounding equally—if not more—annoyed, but with Alisaie rather than his daughter. “ _Perhaps_ if you tried, at all, to relate with both of our daughters rather than just the one you understand, Edrianne would be more willing to seek your help.”

Alisaie’s eyes water. Alphinaud studies Urianger’s face for any hint of remorse but finds none. That, in combination with the relatively common language, worries the newlyweds, who’ve long seen Alisaie and Urianger as an unusually functional pair. “I hadn’t realized this was such a contentious issue.”

“Urianger would be perfectly content coddling Edrianne until she’s as old as we are, still hiding in her childhood bedroom.” Alisaie sneers, crossing her arms. “If he truly cared so much about his daughter, he would have convinced her to return home moons ago. I have half a mind to demand she does so myself.”

Comfortably stepping into his role as mediator, Alphinaud clears his throat, “What exactly have you been doing to help Edrianne, Urianger?”

“By-” Alisaie starts before Alphinaud cuts her off.

“I didn’t ask you.” Alisaie narrows her eyes but concedes, remaining silent.

“Allowing her space to cope with her grief, as she has asked, repeatedly.” Urianger answers.

“Which was fine, for a while,” Alisaie argues, again. “But this has gone on too long.”

“Thou grieved for thy grandsire a minimum of five summers before coming to terms with his fate.”

“That-” Enraged, Alisaie shouts, “Is not even comparable!”

“It likely is to Edrianne,” Alphinaud suggests.

“I don’t understand,” Alisaie’s anger transitions into frustration, “How she could have been completely fine during your wedding, only to regress entirely as soon as we returned.”

“Edrianne has always been mindful of hiding her weaknesses from thee.” Alisaie wipes away the tears from her eyes as Urianger speaks, “It was likely misguided of me to assume that this would ever change in the absence of mine intervention.”

Alphinaud, encouraged by this, tries to beckon a continuation. “And?”

“'Tis possible that, by allowing Edrianne to isolate herself for so long, she has only fallen deeper into the pit of despair.” Urianger, guiltily, admits.

Alphinaud turns to his sister with an eyebrow raised, earning only a “What?” in response from Alisaie.

“Any regrets you’d like to admit to?” Alphinaud, impatiently, asks again. “Not even that your abrasiveness might have prevented Edrianne from reaching out sooner?”

Alisaie glares at Urianger, who shrugs. “Thy brother’s words, not mine.”

* * *

Urianger pauses outside of Edrianne’s door before knocking, still unsure if he’s intruding by asking her to confront something she would rather not. But before he can even bring his knuckles to the door, it opens, and Edrianne stands on the other side with a polite smile.

Her eyes give her away, though, and it’s almost enough to make him lose his resolve entirely. She looks as if she’s hardly been taking care of herself, her skin is more pale than usual, she’s unusually thin. He wonders why he didn’t intervene sooner, though the feeling in his gut reminds him of exactly why: it’s torturous to see your own child suffering in such a way.

“Thy uncle has returned,” Urianger states matter-of-factly, and she nods.

“Can you tell him I send my regards?” Her volume is barely above a whisper, her expression an apology.

“Thou art capable of speaking to him on thy own.” He looks past her, and she looks up at him, her eyes practically pleading him to leave her alone, but he refuses to give in. She must detect as much, as she accepts her fate almost as immediately as she tries to sway it. “May I come in?”

“I suppose.” She opens the door and kicks around books and notes to make a path to her desk chair. “Sorry, it’s a bit of a mess.”

Urianger picks up the stack of books on the seat, books about the Ascians and Zodiark, and hands them to Edrianne. The entire scene reminds him of when Moenbryda died, how he buried himself in his studies to avoid dealing with it, as well. If it weren’t for Thancred’s intervention, he might have lost himself entirely. “Thy mother is concerned thou may be disregarding responsibilities at home.”

“I am.” She admits, taking a seat on her bed. “But I can’t go back.”

“Gridania?” Edrianne breathes deeply and nods. Urianger realizes that in the entire time she has been home, he hasn’t seen her show much of any emotion at all. It wouldn’t be like Edrianne to openly express herself, unlike her sister who cried and screamed and shouted whenever she felt much of anything. It’s obvious, though, that Edrianne is intentionally holding her feelings back.

“I can’t-” She sniffles once before shaking her head. “Talk about this. Not now.”

“‘Tis too late for that.” Urianger asserts himself, “I have permitted thee to keep to thyself for far too long already.” She doesn’t put up a fight, nodding sadly and sniffling again. “Why can thou not return home?”

“It wasn’t just my home.” She mutters, avoiding eye contact with her father. “It was _our_ home.”

Urianger is taken aback by this. He hadn’t considered that she had been so committed to the boy already. For someone who seems so emotionally distant, she often surprises him with how intensely she feels towards others. She, unlike her mother, just happened to keep it better hidden from the untrained eye. “I see.”

“I wish you could have met him.” A sad smile crosses Edrianne's face.

“Before he was corrupted by Zodiark?” Urianger clarifies, and she sighs.

“It was hardly an event. He wasn’t corrupted all at once.” She tries to explain, “It’s not like he was good one day and evil the next. Most of the time, even up until the end, he was his normal self and only sometimes, the darker side of him would surface.”

“But the dark overcame the light.”

“When it was just me at stake,” Her eyes start to water, “It was worth it. I could cope with his anger. I could talk him down from his bouts of insanity. But when we came to Ishgard he changed. He wouldn’t listen to me. He wouldn’t even listen to the Emissary. You know the rest.” Her sniffling increasing with frequency, Urianger moved to join her on the bed.

“He wasn’t himself.” He reminds her, and she shakes her head.

“People keep saying that. I keep saying that. But I don’t know if that is even true. He was still in there, I just didn’t try hard enough.”

“From thy description, thou hast _tried hard_ every day since he sacrificed his soul for Zodiark.”

Undeniably crying now, Edrianne wraps her arms around her father, pressing her face into his chest. “I miss him so much.”

“I know.” He hugs her back, allowing her to sob into his robes.

“I-” She chokes out, “just want to be with him again.”

Urianger inhales sharply, knowing this path leads to nothing good. “Thou art young still. I do not wish to trivialize thy feelings, but this will pass, as did mine own sadness concerning Moenbryda. Thy love will inevitably be shared yet again. Do not succumb to thy despair and deprive thyself of said love so soon.”

She pulls away, wiping the tears from her face. “I’m sorry for scaring you. I didn’t mean that.”

“I lack thy ability to perceive others’ intentions, but ‘twas clear thou did.” Edrianne nods, guiltily. “I beg of thee, lean on those of us who love thee unconditionally, seek our aid. Do not allow thine own thoughts to grow darker and darker.”

“I will try,” She nods, “Truly.”

“If thou believest it to be necessary, remain here until thou art able to confront thy home and ordinary life again.” She shakes her head.

“I need to take care of some things. Hiding in here with a pile of books is clearly not helping.” She smiles, “Plus, I need to greet Alphinaud and the new Mrs. Leveilleur, do I not?”

The rate at which she hastily leaves the room, and at which she seemingly recovers from her earlier outburst, concerns him, but he lets her go.

He struggles to shake the suspicion that he might regret that choice.

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> I promise the next chapter will not be this angsty...


	3. Chapter 3

  
“Any plans for the break, Edrianne?” The night-time librarian asks, and Edrianne glances out one of the few windows. The sun was just starting to come up.

“Catching up on my studies.” Edrianne gestures to the stack of books in her arms and the librarian chuckles.

“Don’t work too hard!” Edrianne smiles politely and leaves, a little guilty that she’s never spoken more than a few words to the elderly elezen woman despite spending increasingly more time in the library during her working hours. One of the drawbacks, Edrianne was finding, of spending all of her free time with a keeper, was that she grew rather accustomed to being awake all night and through the morning hours.

Dawn was easily her favorite time of day. When the tavern crowd has gone to sleep, and the early risers have yet to wake, it was utterly silent. No one’s thoughts and feeling battling for domination against her own. No anxiety from watching someone blatantly lie to someone else.

In summer on days like these, the weather was also quite beautiful. Sharlayan, despite its frigid winters, had unpleasantly warm summers. Dawn provided a nice respite from the unbearable heat and dense humidity.

She unlocks the door to her apartment and sets down the stack of books in the entryway. At first glance, she doesn’t notice the already-lit lanterns, but when she sees the aforementioned keeper perched on her desk, she feels silly for not noticing the lights as soon as she stepped in the door. He notices her—the ear pointed towards the door twitching in recognition of the noise—but doesn’t acknowledge her.

“Had I known you would be here, I wouldn’t have wasted the night away in the library.” Edrianne states.

He’s lost in a book, as Edrianne had been bells ago, his tail swaying slowly back and forth as if he were a housecat preparing to pounce. Edrianne can’t help but smile at the sight, especially when she realizes the book he’s reading is a novel rather than a tome. She so rarely saw him relaxed, let alone doing something for the entertainment of it.

He shuts the book and steps down from her furniture, “I thought you’d left for Eorzea.”

She shakes her head, “I don’t usually go back. Especially not since my father and sister just visited so recently…”

“Well,” He shrugs, stepping forward until there are only a few ilms between them. “We both learned not to make assumptions.”

“Iveh’a,” His eyes light up at her use of his name, “Why are you in my apartment?” Edrianne giggles and the keeper smirks, wrapping one of his arms around her waist.

“It’s a quiet place to hide from my responsibilities.” He answers matter-of-factly.

“A lot of places could serve that purpose.” She continues, looking up into his eyes.

“Because it reminds me of you.” When she scoffs at that, Iveh’a changes the subject. “Anyway, we may have wasted the entire night, but there’s still an entire morning to be had.”

Edrianne nods, kissing the keeper on the cheek and beckoning him to follow her as she takes off her boots. When she looks back at him he raises an eyebrow, and she smirks, removing a few more of her accessories before she climbs into her bed.

Iveh’a joins Edrianne, climbing over top of her and kissing her on her forehead, followed by her cheek, and then hovering over her lips to tease her. The corner of her mouth turned up, she lifts herself off the bed to close the gap between them, and he grins, his tail quivering excitedly.

When he pulls away, he studies her ardently, and Edrianne feels like she could explode from all of the fondness radiating from him. His questioning look implies that her feelings must be apparent as well.

“Why are you looking at me like that?” He laughs self consciously, and she shakes her head, pulling him back down by his shoulders, stealing his lips with hers again, running her tongue over his rough lower lip before deepening the kiss. Undistracted by their responsibilities, she feels as if they’re not merely kissing to pass the time, out of teenage lust, or to convince the other to compromise. When they part, they're both out of breath.

“I like you like this.” Edrianne points out, brushing his hair out of his face. He raises an eyebrow.

“Like what?”

“Just…” She runs her fingertips down the side of his jaw and neck, finally fumbling at the collar of his shirt. “I like this, no Hydaelyn or Zodiark or the Echo. Just us. It’s nice.”

“It’s tempting, isn’t it?” He asks, “We could just do this forever, you know. Run away somewhere quiet, live a simple life.”

Edrianne sighs, “If only we were more selfish.”

“If only.” He smiles sadly, and she senses that might have been an offer.

“So what do you want to do this morning?” She asks, anxious to distract herself from the possibility of leaving their current lives behind. Before he can answer, her body betrays her, and she yawns silently.

“How about sleep?” He suggests, pressing his lips only briefly to the side of her mouth and rolling off of her, filling the space between her and the wall.

“Are you sure?” She rolls over to face him and pouts. She doesn’t want to go to sleep yet. She doesn’t want this to end. He nods, and she flips back, letting him wrap his arms around her and pull her up against his chest. She yawns again, settling into his embrace.

She’s more tired than she realized, struggling to maintain consciousness even though everything about the current circumstance is absolute perfection, absolutely worth the sleep deprivation that staying awake would result in.

As she begins to doze off, she hears him mumble something, just barely coherent.

It might just be her exhaustion, but she’s pretty sure he says “I love you.”

* * *

She wakes up surprised to find the spot next to her still occupied. Both of them had shed clothing as the temperature rose, and the feeling of his bare chest against her exposed back was just indecent enough that Edrianne felt guilty about reveling in it.

She could stay there forever. Between the sensation of Iveh'a breathing on her neck, his arms around her, and the calm silence, she’s confident this is the best thing that’s ever happened to her.

He is the best thing that’s ever happened to her.

She lets slip an undignified noise, something between a sigh and a hum, almost a purr, and she’s infinitely thankful that Iveh’a is not awake to hear it.

Well, she thought he wasn't. He chuckles into her ear, and whispers, “I’d expect that from me sooner than you.”

Exasperated, “Why am I so embarrassing?”

“Somehow, I’m in love with you despite that.”

She immediately flips over to see his face, still sleepy but smiling. “So that is what you said last night?”

He laughs uncomfortably, “Is that why you didn’t say it back?”

She freezes, and somehow, through her own nervousness, she can sense his. She doesn’t know how to explain how she feels. She understands and recognizes love as an emotion, and she definitely has plenty of it for Iveh’a. But she’s only aware of love as a state of being in the abstract. It’s not something she’s capable of identifying in others, so she’s not sure where to begin trying to find it within herself. She knows she’s waited too long to respond and she smiles apologetically.

He’s hurt, she can feel it, but he smiles back anyway. “No need to be sorry, I’m not offended.”

She frowns, “Have you ever been in love before?”

Iveh’a shakes his head immediately. “I was raised to believe that love is a myth and that mating is but a necessary evil for reproduction. My mother doesn’t even know who my father is.”

“Clearly you don’t believe the same.”

“It’s part of the reason I left.” He sighs, “I couldn’t live my life anonymously making young women into mothers and spending the rest of my time poaching in the Shroud.”

“I don’t blame you.” Edrianne flinches, not sure if that statement was culturally insensitive. “So how do you define love, then?”

He smiles, “A special kind of madness. Being unable to spend mere bells away from another person without missing them. Not even fathoming a future without them in it. Feeling as if you’ve had a hole in your very being since the beginning of time, and that only this person can fill it.” Through her fingertips, Edrianne can feel his heart beating, and she finds herself captivated by his words, “It’s finding someone who challenges you to be your best but also tolerates you during your worst. It’s feeling your heart skip a beat when you see them, and feeling nervous even though you feel more safe with this person than anyone you’ve met in your entire life.”

She knows he’s sincere. Not because she can sense his feelings, but because she knows him.

She knows she feels the same, even if she can’t express it quite like he can.

She pulls him closer and buries her face in the crook of his neck, “I think I love you too.”


	4. Chapter 4

“Are you certain this is wise?” The blue-haired lalafell asks, holding the key to Edrianne’s cottage tightly in her fist. “Returning so soon?”

“I appreciate the concern, Susu. But I can manage things from here.” Edrianne squats and holds out her hand, beckoning her friend to give her back her key. “I appreciate you looking after it.”

Susuyo sighs, relinquishing the key to the other conjurer. “If you need anything, let me know, alright? We’ve missed you around the Fane, but we can wait if you’re not feeling up to it.”

Smiling, Edrianne assures her friend. “I just need to take care of a few things.”

As she unlocks the door, she pauses, and the lalafell doesn’t leave quite yet. “If you need somewhere to stay, there’s some floor space in my apartment with your name on it.”

“Please, Susu.” Edrianne begs, “I need to do this on my own.”

“Alright. My offer still stands.” Susuyo offers once more, “Take care of yourself, Edrianne.”

Her friend strolls away, and Edrianne stares at the door in front of her. The sun beating down on her neck, she half expects that when she opens the door, she’ll find him asleep in their bed, even though he hasn’t needed to sleep since he gave up his mortality. He just liked doing it anyway.

But when she opens the door, the house is completely still. Memorialized, she can see the conclusion of their last fight before she left for Ishgard, a shattered mug on the floor and a crack in the wall. Edrianne wonders why she didn’t bother fixing it up before going, she usually did, but maybe it was a reminder to her future self of what she’d been through that night.

Shaking it off, she leaves the front door open, walks to the garden, and gathers empty crates. Thankful she’d kept them around when she’d moved from Sharlayan, she carries one of the crates to her kitchen.

She’s halfway through her cookware when her linkpearl buzzes and her sister’s voice is in her ear, “ _I heard you’re back in Gridania!_ ”

She holds onto the pot in her hands, not sure where it will fit in the box. “I am.”

_“So how do you feel about visitors?”_

“Unless you and Ichelle need supplies to furnish a kitchen, I have no need for you here.”

Erleanne snorts, _“I think we are perfectly content on household items at the moment. Why are you giving all of yours away?”_

Because she needs it all out of her life. Other people aren’t going to look at this pot and remember the time she tried to cook soup, and how Iveh’a kept giving her incorrect instructions from F’lhammin’s cookbook, so she ended up cooking something so disgusting she swore she’d never cook again. “Just feels like the right thing to do.”

_“It’s your stuff, I guess.”_ After a few moments of silence, Erleanne sucks in air, creating a bit of crackling noise in the transmission. _“So, one of the new engineers came up with a new turret that I’m consulting on... it draws in debris and shells from the battlefield and projects it back as shrapnel-”_

“Listen, Erleanne. Can we talk about this another time?” Edrianne feels terrible, especially since she does genuinely care about what her sister has been up to. It just makes this more difficult.

_“Of course. I’m sorry I bothered you.”_ The disappointed tone of her voice almost makes Edrianne change her mind, but she says nothing in return. _“I’ll leave you alone. Talk to me soon though?_ ”

Edrianne responds with a noncommittal “mhm” and removes the pearl. In frustration, she throws it and the pot into the crate, possibly damaging both them and the other items beneath them, but she doesn’t care.

She kicks the box to the side as she leaves the room. She had thought the kitchen would have the least painful memories, but she was wrong.

Their bedroom. The rather large ray of sunlight passing through the window and onto the bed reminds her why they picked this house in the first place. It was one of the few properties in the Shroud that lacked tree cover. Strangely, for a keeper, Iveh’a loved sleeping in as direct of sunlight as possible.

She climbs on top of the bed, pressing her face into the mattress and breathing deeply. It didn’t smell like him. Of course, it didn’t. His corporeal form, a somewhat plausible projection molded in the image of his previous self, was unlike a real body in those ways. He didn’t need to eat, or sleep, or bathe. When he touched her, he was always cold, and it never truly felt like skin so much as thickly concentrated aether. As she lay in the sun, she wonders if he still felt the warmth of its light, or if it was just another of his few pleasures lost to Zodiark.

Having had her fill of crying for the rest of her lifetime, she forces her sleepy self out of bed. _She could close her eyes and pretend…_

When she stands, she realizes she can’t stay here. Everyone was right, she isn’t ready.

After walking the entire length of the house, she steps outside, slamming the door without bothering to lock, and heads towards New Gridania. Carline Canopy was certain to have an inn room available.

Or at least a drink.

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> Sorry this took so long, and that it's so short. I don't know if I can keep to my original ~daily update~ plan. I underestimated how busy I'd be at work. It will probably be more like twice a week.


	5. Chapter 5

The concentration of aether is so intense that it makes Edrianne ill. If she weren’t weightless in this plane, it would have certainly brought her to her knees.

She gets the sneaking suspicion she’s being punished.

_“My child.”_ The voice commands attention, not allowing Edrianne to ignore it. _“My servant.”_ A wave of nausea wracks through Edrianne again, followed by excruciating pain. _“You seek to disobey your purpose, to follow one of His.”_

“I’m following no one.” Edrianne groans, doubling as the pain intensifies. “I’m doing what I think is right.”

_“You mistakenly believe straying from the path of light is righteous.”_ Hydaelyn does not phrase it as a question.

“We just want-” Edrianne cries out, tears forming in her eyes. “Balance. To stop this cycle of calamity and recovery once and   
for all.”

_“You’ve been tainted by His emissary. If you believe Zodiark would ever be satisfied with peace, you’re a fool.”_

“It’s better than doing nothing!”

_“I could put an end to this now.”_ Edrianne nods solemnly. This is a risk she knew she would be taking. _“However,”_ the pain and nausea cease, leaving Edrianne to catch her breath. _“Thy father, too, often walks the line between obedience and treachery. Do not make me regret my mercy.”_

Before Hydaelyn releases her, she feels a sharp pain across her chest like a flame.

* * *

She comes to on the floor of her flat, curled in on herself. Faintly, she can hear knocking on her door. She seriously considers ignoring it but also knows that her peers have been concerned enough as it is. So she stands, limping to the doorway in her pain and exhaustion.

On the other side of the door, Iveh’a looks shaken. Edrianne tries to dismiss her fear and put on a brave face for him, but his vanishes as soon as he recognizes her, melting away into flirty confidence.

“Nice evening we’re having.”

Edrianne rolls her eyes and smiles, letting him in the door. “You never knock.”

“You’ve been begging me to since we met.”

“I never expected you’d actually do it.” Edrianne smiles sadly. “Hydaelyn spoke to me today.”

“Zodiark spoke to me as well.” Iveh’a looks at his feet, and the look of fear returns.

“How did that go?” Edrianne reaches out to touch his arm reassuringly, and he shakes his head.

“I don’t want to talk about it.” Edrianne studies him for a moment, trying to decide if now is the time to press for him to elaborate even if he doesn’t want to, or to give him space. “Do you think that, for tonight,” Iveh’a lifts a hand to brush a strand of hair out of Edrianne’s face. “We could just be Edrianne and Iveh’a? Not servants of Hydaelyn and Zodiark…”

Edrianne nods slowly, sliding her hand up from his upper arm to his chin. She grabs his jaw and pulls him closer, but he’s the one who kisses her. He deepens the kiss immediately, bruising her lips with his. He’s less loving than desperate, a sentiment that concerns her greatly. But she did promise, in a way, not to pry.

When they pull away, his expression is more serious. His pupils are full, and his tail steadily swishes back and forth. He looks like he wants to say something, biting his lip as he stares at her. Edrianne breaks the silence. “What is it?”

“I just.” He wraps an arm around her waist, pulling her closer. “I need to feel close to you right now.” He traces circles on her lower back with his fingertips. “I need to be with you.”

It takes her a moment to realize what he’s asking. She inhales deeply and mouths “oh.”

“You trust me.” It wasn’t a question so much as a statement, but she nods in response anyway.

“Of course I do.” She exhales shakily, showing her nervousness. “If this is what you want.”

He nods and presses his chest against hers. Edrianne winces, and Iveh'a immediately pulls away. “Did I hurt you?”

“We promised not to talk about it.” She smiles sadly, and he narrows his eyes. She carefully removes her robe, not even sure what the burn looks like herself. When she looks down, she sees that an angry red mark stretches from her collarbone to her navel, the skin raised and still tender. The keeper’s breath catches, and not in the way that Edrianne had hoped it would under such circumstances.

“She hurt you.”

“It’s fine.” Edrianne pulls him back against her, ignoring the pain. “I have it under control.”

“I’ll keep you safe.” He mumbles against her cheek, pressing his lips against the skin underneath her ear.

“I know you will.” She lets herself sink into his embrace, not wanting to think about the confrontation and pushing away the memory of Hydaelyn’s anger until further notice. Barely tilting her head to look up, she smirks at Iveh’a as seductively as she can manage. “Where were we?”

“I was about to tell you how completely and utterly in love with you I am.” He kisses her neck and Edrianne giggles.

“Why don’t you show me instead?”

* * *

He’s gone for almost an entire day, something that Edrianne is sure would concern most women in her situation. He does this, though. Disappears for whole days. He prefers to work alone, and he’s smart enough to know that if he mentions something around Edrianne, she’ll ask to join him.

At first, she thinks an intruder found his way into her flat, but the aetheric signature is too distinct. She drops her cane, which she had prepared to use in self-defense, and instead starts sobbing in earnest.

How could he do this to her?

The figure, some poor sod whose body is now possessed with Iveh'a's soul, stands before her, its eyes familiarly concerned. That only makes it more painful.

“N-no,” She stutters. _He used her. He knew exactly what he was doing when he knocked on her door. How could she be so blind? She trusted him._ “You didn’t.”

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> So... this WILL have a (somewhat) happy ending. In the meantime I just have to continue torturing this poor cinnamon roll.


End file.


> I apologize profusely for what I am posting right now. Written as an answer to a friend's question, "Why is all of your Alisaie/Urianger smut so vanilla?"
> 
> This is why, friend.

Lyse stands in the Solar, a bundle clutched against her chest and an impatient look on her face. When she clears her throat, Urianger ignores her.

“Is Alisaie around?” She repeats a second time before he finally acknowledges her presence.

“No.” He doesn’t elaborate, partially because he doesn’t enjoy talking to Lyse, and also because he has no idea where Alisaie is at the moment. She may have mentioned a brief excursion to Limsa at some point, but he also doesn’t recall when she told him so. For all he knows, she’s around the Sands somewhere. Either way, he’d rather not speculate and inevitably say a falsehood.

“Do you know if she'll be back today?”

“No.” Lyse frowns, carefully stepping forward to leave the bundle on his desk. “What is-”

“Don’t!” Lyse stops him before he opens it, eyes narrowed. “For Alisaie’s eyes only.”

“If you insist.” He doesn’t protest, partially because he knows that she’s going to leave and he’ll be able to open it anyway.

“Tataru will be very unhappy if this gets misplaced, so please make sure it ends up in Alisaie’s hands?”

Urianger nods, skeptically, before going back to his reading. Lyse lingers for a moment, eyeing him suspiciously before it seems that he won’t touch the package at all. When she leaves, she turns around one final time, only to find Urianger’s nose figuratively pressed to his book, and she decides it’s safe enough to trust the package to his care.

As soon as he’s reasonably certain that Lyse has left the establishment altogether, he lets his curiosity get the best of him. When he unravels the wrapping on the package, he’s surprised to find a book. An unmarked one at that, with a note attached by twine.

_“I hope you enjoy this second installment as much as you enjoyed the first - Anonymous ❤”_

Pretending he doesn’t already recognize the handwriting, he opens the book to its first page and immediately raises an eyebrow. Though he initially just skims the handwritten wall of text, the sheer vulgarity forces him to pay it close attention.

_“With a spark of something animalistic in his eye, the prince held the adventurer’s hands above her head and pinned her to the wall behind her. A gasp of fear and excitement ripped through her as he growled her name into her ear._

_‘It amuses me, does it amuse you? How you so hungrily wished for my demise in one moment, to taste my blood between your lips, only now to wish for something much different. Or is it so different?’_

_The adventurer cried out, ‘Please.’_

_‘Like me, you have always craved to be defeated. To finally submit to a superior man. I will not give you what you beg for, you must earn it.’"_

Urianger chuckles and shuts the book. He carefully re-ties its bindings and places the note back where he found it before wrapping it with its cloth covering. On the one hand, he’s unsurprised that the novella exists, even less so penned by the ‘adventurer’ herself, but on the other, he would not have expected that Lyse, Tataru, and even Alisaie herself would indulge their Warrior of Light in such a manner.

A little disturbed, he tries to forget the book on his desk and returns to his research.

* * *

Alisaie returns with an impressively large bag full of expensive ingredients. “Do you know how many gigantoads I had to kill for all of these skins?”

“A large number, I presume.” Urianger watches with mild concern as she empties out the bag, evidently exhausted.

“Now all that’s left is basilisk eggs…” She crosses an item off of her list and smiles to herself.

“Pray tell, what is the purpose of all of this?”

“I ah,” She suddenly looks embarrassed, a slight blush creeping across her face. “It’s a trade.” When Urianger seems unsatisfied with that answer, she rolls her eyes. “You’re entitled to your secrets, I’m entitled to mine.”

“If it pleases thee, my lady.” Alisaie narrows her eyes before retrieving the empty bag from the floor and taking off again in a huff.

He realizes when she’s gone that he forgot to tell her about the book.

* * *

It’s late in the evening when she finishes gathering all of the items on her list. Urianger sits and watches as she counts all of the eggs, sprawled out on the floor of the Solar in front of the gigantoad skins.

“‘Tis everything, then?” Urianger asks, and she nods. Despite the fact that she has certainly looked cleaner, he finds her the most charming in moments like this, where she’s covered in dirt and sweat from adventuring, looking slightly smug from a job well done. She must notice him staring because she scrunches up her nose in displeasure.

“Don’t look at me like that.” Urianger tilts his head, confused. She sighs. “I’m gross, and tired, and just generally not in the mood, okay?” Urianger nods dejectedly, earning him a sad smile in return. She walks over and kisses him on the forehead. It’s a consolation prize, but he’ll take it. “I love you.”

He tries not to visibly pout as she re-packs all of the disembodied animal parts into her bag.

* * *

As she sleeps soundly next to him, Urianger is plagued by thoughts of that damned book. He doesn’t genuinely care, it’s not even particularly well written, but he’s somewhat fascinated by its appeal. By Alisaie’s interest in it, at the very least.

Knowing he’s not going to get any sleep anyway, he wanders back to the Solar and unwraps the forsaken tome again. _What does she see in this?_

* * *

Alisaie stumbles out of bed and tries to find her husband, at least to let him know she’s leaving again. She finds him in the Solar, focusing intently on writing something in the margins of a book. “I’m heading to the Toll…” She attempts to inform him, knocking lightly on the doorframe to announce herself.

“Nay,” Alisaie tries to detect any indication he may be joking, but he removes his goggles and stares at her, completely seriously. “Thou shalt remain.”

She raises an eyebrow. “Alright…”

He beckons her over to his desk, and she finds herself obeying. “Remove thy garments.”

She bites her lip, trying not to laugh, and follows his demands. She lets her clothes fall to the floor and looks at him expectantly, awaiting his next order. After a moment of vulnerability, Alisaie closes the gap between them, pressing herself against him and kissing him lightly. Surprisingly, he grabs her by the hip and pushes her away from him. What he doesn’t do is let go entirely, keeping her at a distance but still firmly in his grasp.

“Not quite.” He stands, spinning both of them around so that she’s somewhat sitting on the desk and he’s hovering over her. He trails his free hand down her neck and her chest, the unsettlingly light touch making her shiver. She tries to kiss him again but he shakes his head, and his hand settles between her legs, which she can’t bring herself to protest, despite how strange he’s being.

Knowing they’re alone, Alisaie sees no need to keep quiet. Thancred and Y’shtola were hardly ever around in recent days, and she knows that Urianger appreciates it when she’s vocal. No one knows her body quite like he does, which makes him frustratingly efficient at pleasing her. Hardly moments have passed before she’s panting in his ear.

“Gods, I’m going to-” she starts, before he pulls his hand away and dreadfully shakes his head yet again.

“Not until mine permission hath been granted, My Lady.”

She whines, “Urianger, please-”

Ignoring her pleading, she decides to take matters into her own hands. Urianger grabs her wrist and repeats the sentiment firmly, “were mine words unclear?”

She snorts dismissively, and within an instant, she’s clutching her cheek with both of her hands, glaring at him with annoyance, confusion, and betrayal. “What the-”

“Alisaie, mine apologies cannot begin to-”

“You hit me?” Alisaie gawks at him in complete disbelief.

“I thought,” She blinks, waiting for an explanation. Urianger flinches, “Lyse, the book-”

_The gods-damned book. Of course._

“Pfff.” Alisaie bursts into a fit of giggles, her shock faded. “You read it.”

He nods, clearly horrified, and she doubles over in laughter. “I assumed, perhaps thou wished for me to be more like the prince in the story...”

She groans, massaging her cheek. “I admit, I find the series enticing. But,” she shakes her head, “it’s just a story. I hardly want to live it!”

“Last night-”

“I reject you once, and you assume it’s because I want you to _hit_ me.” He looks away in shame and she rolls her eyes, pulling him in for as chaste a hug as possible given the circumstances. “I appreciate the gesture, I suppose.”

“Mine relief is indescribable.” He admits, mumbling into her shoulder. “That entire encounter was rather unpleasant. Speaking to thee in such a way…”

“I know.” She tries not to giggle again, rubbing his back reassuringly. “There’s a reason I married you and not Zenos.”

He pulls away and looks at her one more time, apparently searching for any residual sign of displeasure. “Art thou angered with me still?”

She grabs his jaw assertedly, pulling his face to eye level. “No. But if you ever hit me again, I will end you.”

She pushes him away and stands, gathering her clothes from the floor, a little satisfied with the flustered expression on his face as she walks away.

As much as she'd love to stay and indulge him, she has a rather large sum of materials to exchange as payment for chapter three.


End file.


> I originally abandoned this because it conflicts with my other fics in a few different ways but I've decided I don't care about that anymore and now here we are. This takes place between patch 4.1 and 4.2!

Alisaie wakes with a pounding headache and a mild feeling of nausea. She sighs, burying her face in her blanket and seriously regretting drinking the night before.

She rolls over in bed and finds the spot next to her empty. She frowns at this, even though she knows it is likely for the best. She'll see him again soon enough.

Upon a further scan of her surroundings, she discovers she's not in her room at all. She supposes she wouldn’t truly be in her own room until they finally leave Ala Mhigo behind, but she has always been the type to decorate a room with small but noticeable personal effects. A few pictures, some flowers, accumulated weapons from her fallen enemies... Instead, the nightstand adjacent to the bed is covered in sketches, most of the Warrior of Light, varying in level of completion, and a tall glass of water. This must be Alphinaud’s room. She smirks. If he thought _she_ needed water, he would be in for a rude awakening in the most literal of senses.

She certainly remembers returning to her own room, as well as other things… It was not as if she drank so much that she would completely misremember the night? Shaking her head, she forces herself to stand, ignoring the glass out of spite.

Alphinaud, nowhere to be found, would almost certainly have some answers, though she is loath to speak with him after their argument. She steps into the hallway, closing the door lightly. If she is in his room, where would Alphinaud even be?

Spotting Lyse walking towards her, she lightly jogs towards the blonde. Lyse smirks, “Having a pleasant morning, Alphinaud?”

Alisaie rolls her eyes. What a creative joke. It’s not as if she’s ever heard that one before. “Very funny, Lyse.”

Alisaie blinks. _That was not my voice._

None the wiser, Lyse’s smile widens. “You’re welcome, for the water.”

So Lyse is to blame. “What happened last night?”

Lyse snorts, “You don’t remember?” Alisaie stares blankly. “You drank too much, got into a fight with your sister, the Warrior of Light themselves had to wrangle you back to your room.”

Her sister? What? Does Lyse think she’s her brother?

Alisaie shakes her head, storming off, irritated by the pointless distraction of a conversation.

Until she walks past a mirror and is deeply troubled by what she sees in her periphery. Stopping, she inspects herself more closely. Her jaw is more defined, throat adorned by a prominent bulge. Her hands are also a lot larger than usual, and her arms less muscular.

Lyse was right, she really does look like Alphinaud. Exactly like him. In fact, she might actually _be_ Alphinaud.

If only she were optimistic enough to believe this is merely a bad dream, but she’s heard of stranger things. Understanding that panic will get her nowhere, she starts thinking about solutions. Urianger would know what was happening to her.

She blushes. Well, Alphinaud does. _Urianger_. If she’s her brother, does that mean…?

Abandoning her nonchalance, she sprints to her room and starts drafting her explanation.

Throwing open the door, she flinches, not wanting to explain herself to her brother, but also knowing that she’s merely hastening the inevitable. Urianger practically jumps out of bed, still shirtless. Alisaie bites her lip but shakes her head. _Now is not the time._

“My Lord-” Urianger shakes his head and corrects himself, flustered, “Alphinaud. I assure you there is an explanation-”

The body, Alisaie’s body, stirs in the bed Urianger leaped out of. Mumbling, “explanation for what...”

Alisaie watches her own eyes pop open, looking around the room as confused as she herself was less than a bell ago. When her body recognizes Urianger standing next to the bed half dressed and what would presumably be Alphinaud in the doorway, its eyes widen. “So I’m hallucinating. That’s wonderful. Just how much did I drink last night?”

“Alphinaud,” Alisaie starts, cautiously. Urianger’s eyebrows furrow and Alisaie hopes that he’s figuring everything out and this will be over momentarily. “Don’t panic.”

Her body sits up, letting the covers fall around it. Alisaie blushes furiously, and Urianger clears his throat.

“What is going on?” Alphinaud blinks, watching his own body burying its face in its hands out of embarrassment.

“Can you please cover up?” Alisaie practically begs, traumatized enough as it is.

He looks even more confused at this request. “Am I not-” looking down, he scrambles, “Ah! What?” Almost immediately, he looks towards his actual body and glares, pulling the blanket up to his neck. “Alisaie.”

“You think this is my fault?” Alisaie rolls her eyes and huffs. Urianger nods, the pieces finally clicking into place.

“Amicability Potion,” Urianger says with minimal explanation. Both of the twins glare at him. “It appears someone took thy argument as an invitation to meddle.”

“What in the seven hells is an Amicability Potion?” Alisaie demands an explanation.

“‘Tis typically used to improve relations between two at odds with one another. When an alchemist uses sub-par ingredients, however, a temporary displacement of consciousness has been documented as a side effect.”

“Did you do this?” Alisaie asks, seriously. Urianger looks offended that she even suspected as much.

“Nay, did I not swear against such interference?”

Alisaie sighs. Alphinaud closes his eyes and shakes his head, bringing his hand up to massage the bridge of his nose. “Dear sister,”

“What?” Alisaie cringes at the impatience in his voice.

“I suppose either of you can answer this.” Urianger shares Alisaie’s agonized expression. “Is there a less-obvious explanation for why the two of you are undressed and sharing a bed?”

Alisaie smiles sheepishly and shrugs. “I think we have more important things to worry about.”

Alphinaud rolls his eyes. “As for the who to blame for,” he gestures between himself and Alisaie, “this. I have a fairly informed hypothesis. But first, if the two of you could leave for the sake of Alisaie’s modesty, I’d prefer to explain my reasoning with clothes on.”


	2. Chapter 2

Alphinaud stands impatiently outside of the Warrior of Light’s room. After a few urgent knocks on the door, the warrior opens it, rubbing their eyes and quirking an eyebrow at the small party amassed outside of their room.

“I’m only a few minutes late, Alisaie, no need to bring reinforcements.”

Alphinaud groans internally but maintains his outward stoicism. Alisaie, meanwhile, narrows her eyes and crosses her arms. “As you are doubtless aware, I’ve been subjected to a potion of sorts…”

The Warrior of Light’s eyes widen. “How did you find out about that?”

“You weren’t even going to tell us?!” Alisaie can’t help but interject. The Warrior of Light just stares at them in confusion. At the lack of an answer, Alisaie huffs audibly.

The Warrior of Light tries to defend themselves, “I just couldn’t stand to see you two fighting anymore-”

“It appears that you may not have been as prudent in your gathering of ingredients as you could have been.”

“I’d say!” Alisaie adds, getting increasingly infuriated.

The Warrior of Light looks past “Alisaie” to the more frustrated twin. “Alphinaud, I assumed you’d understand…”

Alphinaud softens. “I do. But that doesn’t give you the right-”

“ _Oh no._ ” The Warrior of Light covers their mouth with their hand, placing the other on their hip. “I didn’t.”

“Aye,” Urianger explains, “I spoke with Severian, who insists that thou hardly possesseth the alchemical proficiency to produce a sleeping potion successfully on thy first try, let alone something as complex and prone to failure as a potion of the mind and heart. Which begs the question, how did thee find such a recipe in the first place?”

The Warrior of Light scratches the back of their neck self-consciously. “I stole a book from the Great Gubal Library ages ago. I remembered reading something about a potion that makes two people stop fighting with each other. I was desperate and thought it might be worth a try…”

“Did said book not contain a warning as to the side effects of such a potion?” Alphinaud asks, genuinely surprised. The Warrior of Light shrugs.

“It did mention something… but, you know.” The adventurer smirks, “I don’t make mistakes.”

Alphinaud can’t help but smile at their confidence. Alisaie clears her throat.

“You need to fix this!” Alisaie interrupts their flirting.

Urianger explains his plan, “I will return to Ul’dah to inquire about a solution.” The Warrior of Light chuckles.

“Solution… Potion…” The Warrior of Light looks between the three elezen and sighs after no response. “Nevermind.”

“So what do we do in the meantime? Hide?” Alisaie asks, Alphinaud shakes his head.

“I cannot afford a day off at a time like this, the Scions are counting on me for negotiations. We must tell them all at once-”

“No!” The Warrior of Light practically begs. “No one can know the mistake I’ve made…”

Ignoring the adventurer’s pleading eyes, Alisaie rejects the request. “I think you’ve lost all right to make demands of us after-”

“No need to be hasty.” Alphinaud interrupts. “We can just dress up as ourselves and pretend. We were able to pass as each other all the time as kids.”

Urianger shakes his head. “Putting aside your distinct voices, much of your similarity has faded with age, I’m afraid.”

Alphinaud does not ignore the knowing look on “Alphinaud”’s face. _Gross_. “So what exactly do you propose we do then? Continue on as one another until this is resolved?”

Even the Warrior of Light appears to be considering it. Alisaie grins. “You mean to spend an entire day not stuck in bed? Perhaps with a bit of adventuring thrown in?”

“Alisaie, I have an important meeting with the resistance today-”

“Which could result in something involving a weapon!”

“I will be there as well.” The Warrior of Light tries to reassure Alphinaud. “I will ensure she does nothing to ruin your reputation.”

“I suppose we lack other options.” Alphinaud sighs.

“I shall return as soon as I find a cure.” Urianger reminds them. He and Alisaie share a long, silent glance before the older elezen disappears.

“I will find you before the meeting, Alisaie, after I’ve had my morning tea and a bath.” The adventurer nods to Alisaie smiles sweetly at Alphinaud. “Thank you for understanding.”

Alphinaud nods and the Warrior of Light shuts the door gently.

“So, dear brother,” Alisaie imitates Alphinaud’s patronizing tone from earlier. “What was that?”

“What do you mean?”

“You, making eyes at our adventurer friend like a lovesick maiden.”

“You are hardly one to lecture me…” Alphinaud hopes that calling her bluff will make her drop the subject. He’s not in the mood to elaborate on his likely one-sided affections for the Warrior of Light only to be mocked for it endlessly. She smirks and nods, dropping the subject.

She has a lot to do today, after all.


	3. Chapter 3

Alisaie takes a seat at the large table that seats Lyse, the Warrior of Light, herself, and Raubahn. Lyse groans and buries her face in her arms, crossed on the table. “The resistance is going to hate me for this.”

“You no longer answer to the resistance, you answer to Ala Mhigo,” Raubahn adds. Alisaie finds herself extraordinarily bored, and they haven’t even started talking about anything substantial yet.

“Alphinaud,” Lyse starts, “How do you suggest we frame this?”

She looks to the Warrior of Light for help, completely unaware of what they’re talking about. The adventurer nods. “You know more about your own people than Alphinaud does…”

Lyse nods, “If the riots calling for her head are any indication, I can only imagine how well her pardon will go over.”

“Wait, what?” Alisaie shakes her head. “You can’t _pardon_ her.”

“Why the sudden change of heart, boy?” Raubahn asks and the Warrior of Light clears their throat.

“I think your fight with Alisaie last night is clouding your judgment, _Alphinaud_.”

Alphinaud approved of this? This woman was the reason that Alisaie was hurt! He’s going to free her while he keeps Alisaie locked in the city? Where is the justice there?

She crosses her arms and seethes, knowing that everyone is already suspicious of her behavior without another outburst. She thinks of a more plausible way to frame her disapproval. “You can hardly let her off completely unpunished. Perhaps you release her under the condition of her continued service to the Scions and an exile from Gyr Abania.”

Lyse thinks over the suggestion. “I’d hate to exile her from Ala Mhigo. This is her home, too.”

“You wouldn’t know it by her deeds.” Raubahn grumbles, not particularly thrilled with the idea of pardoning her at all.

“I suppose you have a point.” She frowns. “I will publicly share with her those options. If she chooses not to accept them, then we’ve done our due diligence, and we can hardly be accused of being cruel or unjust.”

The Warrior of Light nods. “I think a public apology might go a long way as well, assuming we provide her with some protection.”

“I can handle that.” Lyse shrugs. “How does Alisaie feel about this?”

Looking to “Alphinaud”, Lyse raises an eyebrow. “It’s not really her decision to make, is it?” Alisaie spits. “My sister’s opinion is irrelevant. I doubt she’ll even notice Fordola’s pardon if we don’t tell her about it.”

The Warrior of Light frowns sympathetically at Alisaie. Irritated, Alisaie stands and shoves her chair under the table. “I need a moment.”

“I think we can continue this discussion tomorrow…” Lyse suggests, but Alisaie is long gone before she hears the response.

* * *

“Where do you think you’re going?”

Alphinaud freezes in his tracks, cringing as the angry lalafell calls him out. If he can’t be at the meeting, he figures he ought to check on the center of the resistance directly. “Rhalgr’s Reach.”

“Absolutely not.”

“I’m perfectly fine, Krile-”

“Your brother’s orders are to keep you in the city until he determines you’re healed enough to leave.”

“Since when do you take orders from my brother?” Alphinaud asks, sort of surprised that Krile is going along with his wishes. Krile simply glares. “I’m perfectly fine, and I’ve done this trip dozens of times…”

“Tough luck.” She grabs him by the forearm, dragging him away from the gate. “Your brother doesn’t want you hurting yourself again.”

“I think he would make an exception-”

“Do you want me to ask?” Alphinaud huffs. Of course, his sister would deny his request, if only to punish him. “I hate to do this, but I believe he has a point.”

Of all times for the healer to agree with him, it’s when he wishes she didn’t. Putting on the act of his sister, Alphinaud protests all the way back to Alisaie’s room. “This is so _unfair_. If I want to put myself in harm’s way and torture my brother, then I have all the right to do so!” Really playing the part, he whines, “My entire purpose in life is combat, what am I supposed to do with myself?”

Krile snorts. “I’m sure Urianger would be happy to indulge you.”

Alphinaud collapses on Alisaie’s bed. He looks around, not having spent more than a few moments in her room earlier that morning, and even less before today. If he’s going to be stuck in her dwelling, and her body, he deserves the right to be a bit nosy.

Her nightstand is covered in a number of books with clearly etched titles and on various topics. One stands out to him in particular, though. Its cover is unmarked, and the pages uneven. He chuckles to himself, he never expected Alisaie to be the type to keep a diary.

The entries begin when she’s in Othard.

_“Tataru insists I document my adventures. I’ve never been one for writing my thoughts so we will see how long this lasts.”_

The next few pages are short observation: how Lyse is much more competent than Alisaie expected, how the Warrior of Light insists on wasting time doing errands for people instead of getting them to Doma, how Alphinaud would have been tortured by the sheer amount of swimming they’ve had to do. She even mentions how she’s somewhat annoyed that Alphinaud insisted on joining them when they finally reach their destination. He frowns at this, but he’s not surprised.

The activity drops off again when they return to Gyr Abania. There’s not a mention of the war at all, not until after the incident and he wouldn’t have even known if it weren’t for the date in the upper left corner of the page.

~~_“Is it irresponsible of me to be in love so soon?”_ ~~

He shakes his head and flips through months of irritation at being left behind, various uncharacteristically girly musings about Urianger, and a rough sketch of the view outside of her bedroom.

He sees another scribbled out line, beneath the sketch, that catches his eye, _~~“Sometimes I wish Fordola killed me.”~~_

His breath catches in his throat. Surely she's being dramatic.

_“If I wanted to live like this, only existing to be paraded around, I would have stayed in Sharlayan. I came to Eorzea to understand why grandfather left us for this realm, and now that I finally do understand, I can do naught but sit and watch others make a difference.”_

He tries not to groan. She just doesn’t understand! If she weren’t so _reckless_.

There are no more entries until the present, the day of their fight. _“Urianger insists I attempt to explain my perspective to Alphinaud one last time. If I fail, he promises to ~~save me~~ help me escape. _ _He doesn't seem to realize that Alphinaud is beyond reason."_

He closes the book and stands, blinking away tears. Perhaps he owes his sister an explanation.

* * *

“Alisaie, what’s wrong?” Alisaie whips her head around to see Y’shtola, staring through her with a concerned look on her face. Alisaie freezes.

Y’shtola walks closer until she can touch her, tail flicking with interest as she runs her fingers over her face. “Or is it Alphinaud?”

“It’s Alisaie.” She admits, the voice confirming Y’shtola’s suspicions. “There was this potion and-”

Y’shtola shakes her head. “Is that why you’re so upset?”

After a deep breath, Alisaie mumbles “no.”

“Does this have something to do with your fight last night?”

“Sort of.”

“Your brother just wants to protect you.” Y’shtola explains. “You’ve almost died on him twice now.”

“But it would have been even worse if I _weren’t_ there, and now I _can't_ be.”

* * *

Alphinaud spots them standing in the alley, Y’shtola comforting his sister.

“Alisaie, what does that mean?” He thinks he’s been spotted, but he watches Alisaie cross her arms. Of course, Y’shtola would notice they’d switched immediately.

“If Alphinaud or the Warrior of Light got hurt, the entire war would have been lost.” Alisaie sighs. “I’m not so deluded to believe that I am as important as the Warrior of Light, or Lyse, or even my brother. If I can take a hit so that they don’t, I’ve done my job.”

Alphinaud smiles sadly. It reminds him of what he told Urianger before she departed for the East, that giving her a rapier wouldn’t make her any less of a paladin. He didn't realize how accurate that statement would be until now, though.

Y’shtola smirks and turns to Alphinaud, hiding behind a corner. “Alphinaud, you can stop eavesdropping now.”

Alphinaud sniffles and approaches them. “Alisaie, you’re no less important than the rest of us.”

“You all seem to be doing fine without me now.” She retorts. “And now you want to let Fordola loose in all of this? What if she comes after you next?”

“I’ve been selfish,” Alphinaud admits. “After you nearly died, for the second time I might add, I was traumatized and wanted to keep you safe. But it’s this attitude of yours, that you’re somehow destined to die on our behalf, that forces me to keep you here.”

“If I wanted to sacrifice myself, I wouldn’t be standing here right now!” Alisaie groans. “Yes, I might get hurt, a lot. But that’s why I have you, and Urianger, and Y’shtola, and Krile. We have to work together, someone needs to be able to suffer the injuries, and it can’t always be the Warrior of Light.”

“But does it have to be _you_?” Alphinaud is thoroughly crying now, something Alisaie does not ignore. The corner of her lip quirks with amusement.

“If I didn’t know any better, I’d think your concern means you like me.”

“Shut up.” He sniffles, and she rolls her eyes, pulling him in for a hug.

“You don’t have to protect me, Alphy. I’m not delicate.”

“But I _want_ to.”

“That’s unfortunate for you.”

“Why am I crying?” He mumbles, tears still flowing from his eyes. Alisaie giggles.

“At least I know I can blame my body for that, now.”

* * *

Alisaie wakes in her own bed. Subconsciously, she brings her hand up to her chest, searching for the familiar mounds of flesh and sighs with relief when she finds them. Urianger chuckles, and she blushes, hiding her face in her blanket.

“‘Tis fortunate the two of thee reconciled thy differences,” Urianger starts, ignoring Alisaie’s embarrassed whining. “Upon further research, the only antidote to a failed amicability potion is to become amicable on thy own.”

“Well isn’t that convenient?” Alisaie mumbles.

“In other news, Lord Alphinaud has informed me that any restrictions on thy travel have been lifted, under the condition a healer accompanies thee in dangerous territory.”

“I guess it’s a good thing I have you, then.” Alisaie peeks her head out from under the blanket.

“In his missive, thy brother was also sure to remind that if thou art to suffer any pain, of the flesh or heart, he shall hold me responsible.”

Alisaie snorts. “I will take that as a stubborn approval of our relationship.”

Urianger shrugs, “Threatening the Warrior of Light may be less effective.”

* * *

Alphinaud adjusts the collar of his shirt awkwardly as the Warrior of Light carefully deliberates over wine choices.

“Thank you for inviting me here tonight, I’ve needed a break from things.” Alphinaud raises an eyebrow as the warrior speaks.

“Did _you_ not invite _me_?”

“What?” The adventurer looks confused. “I received a letter, from you, asking to meet me here…”

Alphinaud groans suspiciously, “So did I, from you.”

The Warrior of Light laughs. “Something tells me Alisaie is behind this.”

Alphinaud’s linkpearl buzzes and he dismisses himself to answer the call. _“How’s the date?”_

“You scheming-”

_“Be sure to thank me at your wedding!”_

The link is lost. He looks back at the Warrior of Light, watching him with amusement, and he sighs with resignation. He might as well enjoy himself.


End file.


> The Sunrider series of Visual Novel games were created/developed by Love In Space. http://forum.loveinspace.moe/ and http://sunrider-vn.com/  
> Final Fantasy XIV was created/developed by Square Enix

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> Fighting instincts he'd carefully honed over many years told Haurchefant an attack was coming, and caused his body to pivot around searching for the source. A knight of the Heavens Ward had taken position on a decorative corner overhang just outside of the line of sight from the tower entrance opening onto the wide stone walkway that made an excellent airship landing site. 
> 
> With a cry Haurchefant began to run toward the Warrior of Light. While wishing to The Twelve that he would make it in time Haurchefant felt something hit him with such force that his body was thrown into the petite Au'Ra he'd come to love, causing the two of them to tumble together into a heap on the stone tiles. Closing his eyes Haurchefant wrapped his arms around Tessa, and tried to curl his body protectively over hers.

The past week for the Gods' Quiver and Woods Wailers had been unusual to say the least. Double the number of guards posted to the city gates with whole platoons assigned to patrolling the streets of Gridania the city began to feel more like the encampment of an army preparing for war than the capital of the normally peaceful woodland city-state. Had anyone other than the seriously dour Captain of his company delivered that mornings briefing Bertennant would have accused the officer of sampling random wild mushrooms. Bertennant still wondered about the unusual nature of briefing, and what sort of unusual method the strangers he was supposed to greet sometime that day would use to arrive. 

"Hopefully they get here before the eighth bell of the Afternoon Watch, so I can get back to the barracks while dinner is still warm," Bertennant said, unintentionally stating his thoughts out loud. 

No sooner had the words left Bertennant's mouth when he heard an unfamiliar crackling sound. Looking around Bertennant saw a circle forming of small lightning like threads. He quickly motioned to the additional guards, who nodded their heads and moved quickly to keep anyone from attempting to enter New Gridania while the unusual phenomenon lasted. Other members of the Gods' Quiver and Wood Wailers who'd been posted to guard duty nearby, and off-duty members who'd been relaxing in the Carline Canopy also moved to keep citizens and travelers inside New Gridania at what they hoped was a safe distance.

With a temporary perimeter zone established Bertennant slowly and carefully approached, and circled around the strange circle. He found the odd circle to be disconcertingly flat, and when looking through the circle toward the Blue Badger Gate Bertennant saw a white circle forming inside of the circle that seemed to be made of lightning. Unable to believe his eyes he moved to look through the circle from the side facing the city gate, and saw no sign of the white circle. Scratching his head in confusion Bertennant walked back to where he was looking through the circle toward the Blue Badger Gate, and watched the strange circles grow until both circles were nearly seven fulms across. 

Bertennant and almost everyone witnessing the strange event gasped in surprise when Four people stepped out of the white circle. They seemed to be Hyuran in appearance, two males and two females wearing clothing made from a fabric with check like blotches that seemed to shift to match the colors of the ground and shrubbery around the quartet. They also wore something similar to pot-helms on their heads with thick vests covered in same type of cloth over their torsos. Bertennant and others nearby at first took both of the males to be adults, with the shorter male standing just over five and a half fulms tall, but after slightly more scrutiny it was clear his cheeks had yet to feel the kiss of a razor's edge. The Females seemed to both be in their womanhood, with the slightly shorter female seeming to have entered the fullness of maidenhood. The taller male and female both held something at in at an angle that looked both similar to and nothing like the muskets the Order of the Twin Adder had recently begun issuing. 

When the four coming out of the white circle had their feet firmly on the ground the two circles behind them disappeared with a momentary thunder like clap accompanied by a sound similar to rushing winds or water. The four seemed to be looking around slowly taking in the view in front of them, and talking in soft surprised tones with each other. However, Bertennant was sure he heard them say Gridania. 

Thinking back to the morning briefing Bertennant remembered the visitors were supposed to be greeted with the same courtesy and respect afforded Royal visitors and other Heads of State. Slightly shaking his head Bertennant stepped forward to fulfill his duty, but wondered where such strangely outfitted persons could possibly be royal sovereigns. 

Momentarily unable to make himself give a verbal greeting fitting his orders Bertennant opted to delay by bowing to the quartet, while trying to quickly string together something that seemed appropriate. After raising himself back to a normal standing position and clearing his throat he began.

"Uhm, travelers coming to us from unknown distant lands, in the name of our Elder Seedseer I humbly bid you welcome to Gridania."

Bertennant then made the saluting gesture used by the Order of the Twin Adder, the military and police keeping force the Gridanian City-State, while assuming his best parade grounds position of attention. To the surprise of everyone nearby the taller of the two lifted their right hand from the grip of the object both strangers were holding at an angle. The older male visitor responded by raising his hand until the tip of his forefinger touched the brim of his helmet near the area closest to the corner of his eye, with the fingers held together, the thumb held in line with the fingers and snug along the hand, holding the forearm in straight line from the tips of the fingers to the elbow, and the upper arm held horizontal to the ground. Bertennant and others within hearing nearly jumped when the stranger spoke.

"At ease soldier," the older looking male said in a clear carrying voice that caused some of the patrons who hadn't previously left the Carline Canopy to look out of the wide entryway opening to the inn and adventurers guild level of the building.

The clearly female, visitor than took off the helmet covering her head, and shook her head side to side while combing the fingers of one hand through her brilliant red hair. Then with the help of a strap she let rifle like the object she'd been holding hang across her chest and produced two thin blue ribbons, which she used to tie two tails in her hair just behind and above each ear. 

The older male newcomer stepped forward with his right hand extended out to Bertennant in a gesture that wasn't unfamiliar to the peoples living on the continent of Eorzea. In that moment, as though in slow motion, Bertennant saw the eyes of both strangers begin brilliantly glowing in slightly different shades of blue, watched them pull the musket like objects they were carrying to their shoulders while pivoting around to face toward Blue Badger Gate, and push their younger companions behind them just before a horde of creatures with mixed features of both plant and animal species native to the Black Shroud forest broke up out of the ground around the gate. Bertennant was then momentarily blinded by an extremely bright flash of light followed by several ground shaking thunderous explosions. The air was then filled with the scents of burning plants, flesh, and ozone.

As his sight slowly returned and the ringing in his ears quieted Bertennant became aware of the warning horns and bells used during emergencies coming from all directions of both Old and New Gridania, and some of the small settlements near the capital of the city-state. Putting the linkpearl used by the city-state's forces to coordinate the response to an emergency to his ear Bertennant heard a cacophony of voices reporting similar attacks, with some accompanied by panicked requests for reinforcements. Near the middle of the now broken Blue Badger Gate atop a smoking pile of the dead attacking creatures stood a white and red colored armored giant discharging cannon like weapons with rolling thunderous staccato bursts.

Bertennant felt something wrap around his upper arm, and looked down at a large armored hand before looking up at the face plate of the man sized power armor like Ryder that had appeared on the older male. While trying to gently help Bertennant back up the stranger extended his free arm where an infantry sized auto-cannon appeared in his armored hand, and fired shells arcing up into the air in the general direction of the White Wolf Gate and the Twin Adder Barracks. Outside of his line of sight Bertennant and others in the general area didn't see the ancient Lost Tech Smart Shells divide into miniature millimeter sized rockets lancing into the bodies of the nightmarish hoard pouring through the splintered remains of the nearest entrance in New Gridania to the Lotus Stand like thousands of silvery stainless steel needles before exploding in a great columns of flame.

The sensor results displayed on the HUD of the original prototype Ryder showed Joshua his improvised artillery strike had caused the column of cybernetic drones to temporarily retreat, and regroup in the area around the fork in the road outside the gate. The Ryder was given to Joshua as a wedding present by a monastic order on the day he and Asaga were married. The curious group had been founded by a Divine Emperor of the Holy Ryuvian Empire, an ancestor of Joshua's, and one of the few Divine Emperors who isn't an ancestor of Joshua's wife Asaga Di Ryuvia (aka Asaga Oakrun) Princess of Ryuvia Prime.

"Josh, I can hold this area with m'ah Black Jack. You think you can do something about that other large group?.

"Acknowledged Bravo Juliet, not a problem. Hey, do you have eyes on the kids? My HUD has their IFF markers right on top your's, but I don't see them anywhere down here." 

"Ummm, sort of maybe." Asaga replied. "Black Jack says they're on board, but they sure aren't here in the cockpit."

Michelle, Joshua's oldest child and Asaga's Stepdaughter, decided she had chime in. "Dad, I'm pretty sure Caleb and I are inside Black Jack. Didn't the monks say some of the lost tech they were installing allowed them to add passenger pods?."

Bertennant regaining his senses started barking at the nearby Wood Wailers and bowmen of the Gods Quiver ordering them to begin forming a defensive line when Joshua leapt with a bound that left two deep divots in the sod, and carried him soaring higher than anyone in the nearby crowd who'd never seen a Dragoon thought possible. As Joshua landed on the path in front of the Twin Adder Barracks the concussion wave of two Imperial era Ryuvian assault class infantry shuttles decelerating from hyper-sonic speeds shattered glass windows throughout the forest nation, and cracked windows as far away as the city of Ul'Dah.

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> Yes, I used the Chapter summary as a sort of prologue previewing the eventual destination of this story.


	2. Trouble With a Capital T

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> Creatures seemingly made from an amalgamation of other forest creatures have burst out of the ground in various areas in and around the city of Gridania. Are they truly a mindless horde randomly attacking the city-state, or is this the precursor to invasion by a previously unknown enemy.

Captain Gairhard felt the additional patrols being made into the areas near Gridania presented an excellent opportunity for the platoons under his command to engage in field training exercises where the greener recruits could be drilled in the relatively safe Central Shroud area of the Black Shroud Forrest. The route march on the dirt path going east from the fork below the Blue Badger Gate around the Jadeite Thick began as planned before sunrise after first bell of the first morning watch bell. The column maintained a well ordered interval with almost no interruption to the pace of the cadence sung out by the First Sargent when the company began passing over the small bridge on the East Vein river near Gilbert's Spire.

After passing over the river the platoons under the watchful eyes of the senior Non-Commissioned and Commissioned Officers practiced different formations in the different kinds of landscapes found near Gabineaux's Bower and Greentear.

After the fourth bell of the Forenoon Watch the First Sargent approached Captain Gairhard, and stopped without saluting since the field exercise was being conducted as a combat deployment.

Standing at an even six fulms with shoulders two ilms wider than most Hyurans First Sargent Emil Fornier was a rare giant of a M'Quote, and was also the last living member of a nomadic Keepers of the Moon tribe that once called Ala Mhigo home. Emil befriended Gairhard when they both arrived in the Black Shroud as refugees fleeing the occupation of Ala Mhigo by the Garlean Empire, and enlisted in the Order of the Twin Adder together. As a child, the event that orphaned Emil was so traumatic he couldn't remember anything about his family or his own name.

"Sir, may I suggest taking an hour or two break. The squads could use some rest, and some time check on equipment and have any injuries treated."

**Notes for the Chapter:**

> Information on one or more Wikis refer to Gairhard as a Twin Adder Squad Leader with the rank of Captain, I decided for this story he's in command of an infantry company. Because of the time I spent in the US Army Reserves when I was younger it just doesn't feel right to have a commissioned officer with the rank of Captain to be in command of anything smaller than a company.
> 
> For time keeping I decided the easiest course was to use the US Navy FAQ chart http://www.navy.mil/navydata/questions/bells.html since the information I found online about the use of bells in medieval time keeping revolved around religious rituals and prayers.
> 
> I'm sorry, I spent more time researching than actually adding to this chapter.


End file.

Night was high. Everything was calm and quiet. Nothing seemed amiss for the bumbling, sleepy guard at the back door of the museum-

 

“Ah!”

 

A prick on the back of his neck, and he fell to the ground, asleep. A feminine figure slid down from a nearby roof, took a nearby rope, and tied him to a pole. She smirked, before placing a small device near the alarm, thus disabling it. From the belt around her waist, she took a lockpick, undid the lock at the back door, and turned back towards the direction from whence she came. She gestured, and a small group of people came behind her, just as concealed as she was.

 

Priceless artifacts littered the hallways, which she left to the others. She leapt deftly into the rafters; moving through them until she reached a vault. She landed silently in front of the vault, before placing a device like the one she'd used to disable the alarm on the electronic lock. It popped open, and she pushed the heavy door open, grunting at the weight. She then reached in, and grabbed her prize-a small, dark red sphere, covered in metallic protrusions.

 

“Ow! Fuck!” She cursed, cutting a finger on one of the metallic protrusions. Blood dripped onto the figure, and moments later, it suddenly began to glow, before the room was filled with blinding red light. She was forced to shield her eyes…

 

_“At last…”_

 

When it faded, a very ghostly form stood before her, a female figure that was terrifying in its appearance. The ghost seemingly smirked, before coming forward and taking the thief’s startled and confused face in her clawed hand.

 

_“Interesting… So you were chosen… You are young. How perfect…”_

 

No, that voice _could not_ **_be!_ ** This couldn’t be possible! Ghosts aren't _real!_ She wasn’t _real!_ She was _not_ **_real!_ **

 

 _“You doubt my existence? How amusing. But enough delaying… You are_ **_mine._ ** _”_

 

She couldn’t even react before the ghost seemingly disintegrated into red, aetherial tentacles that reached around her and then infused into her, also drawing the fragments of the odd object into her. It had barely finished before the searing, agonizing pain began.

 

She cried out as she felt black talons push her human nails out of place, and clutched at her arm, feeling the once-human skin harden into leathery, scaly skin. She watched in horror as the color shifted; her body's growth shredding her clothes. She could do nothing as the transformation progressed all over her body.

 

She felt agonizing pain in her back, right where her shoulderblades were. She clawed at the wall as she felt something tear from her back. When she looked back, she was mortified to see the familiar draconic wings that the spirit herself had upon her back. She doubled over, collapsing on her hands and knees and curling into a fetal position, feeling the sensation of the tail ripping out of the base of her spine. She whimpered as she felt her feet shifting around and talons growing. Exhausted, she collapsed, looking into the somewhat reflective metal of a handle, to see her eyes turned crimson red, the odd shape in the center of the forehead, and silver hair.

 

“This can't be real! I have to be in a nightmare!”

 

_“You think me a nightmare, brat? Me, Nael van Darnus, the White Raven, a mere figment of your imagination?!”_

 

“Ghosts aren't real!”

 

_“Then how do you justify me?”_

 

The thief was silent, before suddenly feeling pressure on her mind-

 

_“Yield, damn you!”_

 

“In your dreams!”

 

She slipped into unconsciousness...

* * *

 

“What… where _are_ we?” The thief wondered, looking around at the dark-skied realm. The moon had an unusual, dragon-head shape in it, but otherwise, the realm was desolate. Nael folded her arms, and huffed.

 

_“‘Twould seem you've gone and dragged us into a shared mindspace in a desperate attempt to maintain control.”_

 

The thief tensed.

 

“I'm not giving up my body to you! It's mine!”

 

_“We shall see about that…”_

 

Nael conjured a bizarre silver halberd, and the thief conjured a pair of rifles. Nael darted forwards, the thief leaning back and shooting Nael in her side. The Raven hissed in response, but managed to impale the thief right through her chest. Nael chuckled.

 

_“I win-!”_

 

The nameless one grabbed Nael’s head, and threw her back with force. She absorbed Bradamante into her body, much to Nael’s shock. A demonic smirk came across her face.

 

 _“My_ brain, Nael! My head!” She said, before conjuring an array of powerful firearms and launching them all at Nael, wailing down on her. The draconic woman struggled to try to counter, exhausting her will by throwing magic in turn at the varying projectiles. The cloud of smoke that resulted was thick, thus confusing her-

 

She suddenly found herself enchained in silvery binds, before being thrown into a silvery cell. Nael hissed-the nameless one had trapped Nael in a “prison”, unable to merge with the spirit proper, and yet, partially merged with her anyways-the lines blurred between the two of them in certain areas, but were very defined in others. Nael chuckled.

 

 _“You_ **_are_ ** _creative… I will concede that to you… But your victory will no doubt ring hollow…. Who are you?”_

 

“The name's Luna.”

 

Nael chuckled. Luna looked confused as a light suddenly enveloped them both.

 

_“It’s high time we woke from this fantasy…”_

* * *

 

She looked at her body, and sighed. What could she do now? She couldn’t let anyone see her like this! Not when she looked like some sort of monster-

 

The sudden sound of sirens blaring and the alarm wailing snapped her out of her thoughts. Shit, it must have been one of the newbies… she couldn't be seen here, not like this-

  
_Fly, you fool! You have wings, use them!_ Nael’s voice snapped inside of her head. She looked up and saw a window. She sprinted, broke it, and jumped out, spreading her wings whilst simultaneously snapping her tail downwards, taking off into the night.


	2. Hero

**Summary for the Chapter:**

> With Nael defeated, Luna had fled into the night to evade capture. But sharing a body with a strange spirit and being forcefully mutated into a bizarre form is proving to be only the beginning of the chaos...

She landed on a skyscraper rooftop on the outskirts of the city. Overlooking it, she curled up into a ball. What could she do now? She had blindly accepted a request to steal the damn moon thing, and now, she was paying the price for her ignorance. Some sort of spirit was now living in her mind, and her body had mutated into the shape of the spirit. Only because of the partial merging of their minds had Luna even managed to escape successfully.

 

 _Hmph. You fought to lock me away into a part of your mind, ensuring I would never be able to take control of you, and yet, you know that this form that you now possess will never be accepted by those you held dear. Why fight me so hard for naught?_ Nael questioned.

 

“Because I wasn’t interested in just playing host to some spirit that came out of a weird moon thing! It’s _my_ body!” Luna insisted.

 

_So, instinctive fear. How pathetic. And now I am trapped in here, with you, forced to watch you live whatever pathetic life you live. The fates must hate me._

 

“Well, _excuuuuse me_ for _not_ believing in the existence of magic and shit until about five seconds ago, let alone some fucking ghost lady that lived in a fucking red moon ball!"

 

_Oh, you believe now because I am now trapped in your body? And the object was a scale replica of Dalamud, not some child's toy!_

 

"Does it look like I give a damn about the thing's fucking _name?!_ It was just supposed to be as simple as get in, get the loot, and get out! No magical bullshit that results in me looking like some video game reject and being forced to share my body with an annoying bitch ghost!"

 

_I did not wish to be trapped in the body of some pathetic little thief whose ignorance and greed made her vulnerable to possession, but somehow managed to overcome me and seal me away!_

 

“I'm not pathetic, and besides, _you_ were the one who forced yourself into _my_ body! You could've stayed out and been fine, but noooo,  you just  _had_ to try to take over!"

 

 _As was my right as a Legatus and veteran on conquest! But now, your idiotic stubbornness has now forced you into this situation! If you would have just_ **_submitted-_ **

 

A shriek of terror cut off Nael mid-rant.

 

“What was that?” Luna wondered.

 

_What else could it be? Some poor fool screaming in terror._

 

Luna walked over to the edge of the building, and saw a young girl being held by her shirt collar, over a rooftop edge. Her eyes widened-

 

 _Do not tell me you are_ **_seriously_ ** _thinking of saving a complete_ **_stranger._ ** _She does not know you, let alone care for you. Why should you save her?_

 

“Because helping people who need it is the right thing to do! And now, because of this whole thing, I can do something!”

 

_Hmph. How very hypocritcally altruistic of you-why you-!_

 

She sprinted off the edge, spreading her wings and snapping her tail downwards. She took off, and just as the crook let go of the little girl, Luna caught her. Luna smiled at the girl, unaware of her fangs, despite Nael’s clear annoyance pressing on her mind. The girl stared in horror, squirming a bit.

 

“Hey! Stop squirming-I’ll accidentally drop you!” Luna scolded. The girl did as told, but was still terrified. Luna let out an exasperated sigh.

 

“Look, I know I look like a monster, but I’m not one. I’m here to help. Where are your parents?”

 

“I-Inside! A bunch of scary men in black clothes with guns came in and started yelling! I ran, but one of them caught me…” She stammered.

 

 _Congratulations, your idiotic and hypocritical altruism has now gotten us involved in a hostage situation!_ Nael snapped.

"What is your problem?!" Luna seethed.

**_YOU!_ ** _You and your damnable stubbornness, as well as your idiotic and hypocritical altruism!_

"Are you capable of anything  _besides_ being a fucking bitch about  _everything?!"_

"Uhhh... who are you talking to?"

It was then that Luna remembered the fact she was holding someone. She laughed awkwardly.

"Don't worry about it. Let's get you to safety."

A nod, and then, she landed in front of a small group of police, set up to protect themselves and undoubtedly try to negotiate. They stared upon seeing Luna arrive with the girl in her arms. Luna let the girl down and she ran behind the cops.

 

“Who and what the hell are you?” One of them demanded. Luna internally cursed-she hadn’t thought that through…

 

 _Well? What will you tell them?_ Nael taunted. Luna gave a mental kick to the rather-irritating spirit, and quickly regained her confidence.

 

“You can call me the White Raven. I caught her and she told me that there’s a hostage situation inside that building.” Luna said.

 

 _Oh, how_ **_creative_ ** _of you. You use_ **_my_ ** _title as an alias!_

 

Luna gave another mental kick to the spirit. Nael huffed, expressing her annoyance.

 

“Yeah, there’s a situation alright. Bunch of absolute psychos stormed in and took everyone on the top floor hostage. We have no idea what they want. It’s a waiting game until they call us and give us their demands.”

 

Luna swallowed a bit, and looked back towards the building.

 

“Kid, you’re not seriously thinking of going in there and trying to save everyone, are you?!”

 

She turned back a bit, looking at the cop who had spoken.

 

“There’s no one else here who’s willing to, is there? By the time any contact would be made, I’m sure someone will have already been killed!” She insisted. She once again took off, heading towards the captured building. She could feel Nael becoming increasingly frustrated, but the spirit suddenly relented as they were mere feet from the building.

 

 _If you are going to insist on this folly, then you must be able to fight. You must not be afraid to sully your hands with blood. Are you truly prepared to do so? To use Bradamante and fight, to the death should it be so?_ Nael questioned. Luna looked down for a brief moment.

 

“I’ll try to avoid killing as best I can, but I won’t hesitate to fight. You can fight without killing, and besides.. it'd be nice to do something besides stealing for once.” Luna replied. Nael seemed intrigued and pleased.

 

_An interesting answer, to say the least. One full of naivety and childish hope. But if some pathetic little thief can overcome a trained veteran of combat, who knows what else is possible?_

 

She landed, and then stood up. One of the thugs came up, and looked at her, confused.

 

“Who the hell are you supposed to be?” He demanded, gun pointed at her. She smirked.

 

“I'm the White Raven. Who's your boss? What does he want?” She asked in turn.

 

“Why the hell should I tell you that, bitch-whoa!”

 

In an instant, she darted forward, knocking his rifle out of his hands, kicking it to the side, grabbing his throat, and pinning him against a wall. He instinctively began clawing at her iron grip. She glared at him.

 

 _“No one_ calls _me_ a _bitch,_ got that? Now, tell me who you're working for, and what they want!” She demanded harshly, voice dripping with venom. There was the slightest hint of Nael’s voice in her demand, the entity clearly sharing in the insulted feeling.

 

“I-It was some weirdo who was wearing red robes who hired us! Didn't get her name, just a few rock monsters to help us and orders to take everyone in here hostage until one of her friends arrived! I swear, I don't know anything else!” He admitted, panicking.

 

Luna looked confused for a moment, before throwing her victim to the ground, knocking him out.

 

“Freak in red robes? Rock monsters? The hell is he talking about?”

 

_Hm. The former I cannot say, but it is very possible “rock monsters” is a crude description of golems. And given the Dalamudian presence, they are undoubtedly the very golems I used in battle._

“I'll ask about the details later, but wouldn't that imply that we could take control of them? Use them to our advantage?”

 

_So you do have some tactical knowledge after all._

 

“You know, you could stand to not insult everyone who isn't you!”

 

_And you could stand to not be so sickeningly and hypocritically altruistic!_

 

“Helping people in need is actually a good thing!”

 

 _Oh, most certainly, if you can call getting involved in a hostage situation a good thing, even though_ **_you yourself_ ** _are a_ **_thief-_ **

 

“Would you can it already?! We have to hurry up before someone gets shot!”

 

_...Damn it all. Just do it and get it overwith._

 

Luna growled in annoyance, before kicking down the rooftop door and storming down the stairs. The two guarding the base of the stairs were swiftly taken down, being thrown to the floor and their guns crushed underneath her taloned heel. The others stared, aiming at her.

 

“Who the hell are you supposed to be-nevermind, just shoot her!”

 

They opened fire, but Luna instinctively put up a barrier, curling in on herself a bit, and then, she looked up, smirking.

 

“Heh… Nice.”

 

The hired guns stared.

 

“What… what the fuck is she?!”

 

“I’m the White Raven, bitch!”

 

The barrier dropped as she landed. She punched one in the face, and swung her arm around, knocking another down…. But more were swarming her by the minute.

 

“Damnit, there’s an army! I need that lance you used!” She cursed under her breath.

 

 _Focus on the image of Bradamante, and will it into being. You were imparted with the knowledge of how to use it by merging with me… or at least the basics of such._ Nael instructed. Luna closed her eyes, and put out her hand. She focused on the image of the gunhalberd, and, much to her shock, it appeared as she opened her eyes, solid as she gripped it in her hand.

 

Inhaling, she added her other hand to the grip, and began her work. Impaling, spinning around, throwing impaled bodies to knock others out, working swiftly to take down the hordes before her-

 

“Alright, lass, that’s enough!”

 

Luna stopped when she heard the voice, and suddenly, a young girl had been taken hostage; a rifle aimed at her head.

 

“Give it up, or little miss Muppet here’s gonna be lookin’ for a new brain!”

 

Luna bit her lip.

 

_...There is a way out of this, in which she can live._

 

Luna remained silent…

 

_Cast a spell to knock him unconscious. Will the magic into existence, like you did with Bradamante, and aim right for the back of his skull. He should fall in seconds._

 

Once again, Luna took in a deep breath, and conjured a small block of ice. Before the gunman could even blink, she let the spell loose, and, just as Nael said, he went down. The girl screamed and ran to Luna, clinging to her leg, sniffling. Luna smiled, and ruffled the youngster’s hair, before kneeling down to her level.

 

“Are your mommy and daddy around?” She asked calmly.

 

“N-No! The men with guns came in, and they took mommy and daddy away, and then, I heard loud noises!”

 

Luna’s eyes widened at the realization. Nael huffed.

 

_To prove that they were willing to kill their hostages, undoubtedly. What will you do?_

 

“The only thing to do…” She muttered. The girl looked confused.

 

“Ah, don’t mind that. Do you know how to get out of here?”

 

The girl nodded.

 

“Okay, then can you do me a favor?”

 

“Um, I can try…”

 

“I want you to take everyone else out of here, and work with the rock monsters to lead them to the police outside. Can you do that for me?”

 

“I-I’ll try!”

 

And with that, the young girl rallied the freed hostages together. Using the same tricks as before, Luna took control of the golems, and they formed a guard around the civilians as they were led out. She smiled, and Nael internally rolled her eyes.

 

_Well, well. You managed to avoid killing anyone, and you came out mostly unscathed. Impressive, all things considered._

 

Luna let out an exasperated sigh. Of course the only way Nael could give a compliment would be in a sarcastic, passive-aggressive, backwards way…. Suddenly, she felt a presence, and she looked around. Off in the distance, she could see a red shape…

 

“Shit, of course the Avengers would take notice of this!”

 

_Avengers?_

 

“A group of superheroes, I’ll explain once we’re outta here!”

 

_Very well then._

  
Luna sprinted towards a broken window, jumped out, spread her wings, and snapped her tail downwards, taking off.


	3. Deceit

“Looks like a typical hostage situation that just had metaphysics involved. Why are we here again?” Tony asked.

 

    “Because the metaphysical presence was something we’ve never seen before. And, besides, the police informed us that the one who saved the day was some new hero who called herself ‘The White Raven’.” Natasha reminded.

 

    “Right. New kid on the block manages to defeat a bunch of hired gunmen with energy and powers we’ve never seen before. All we know is an alias she gave the cops to cover her ass, and what little we could get from the security footage.” The genius mused, scanning the scene with his armor.

 

    “Is your armor giving you anything yet?”

 

    “Eh, not much. It says that there are traces of energy… whoa…”

 

    Natasha turned and looked at Tony.

   

    “What’s wrong?” She asked.

 

    “Okay, this is freaky. The energy readings are unlike anything I’ve seen before… it’s not any known energy form!”

 

    She looked confused.

 

    “Not _any_ known energy? Then that means-”

 

    “Our little bird comes from another universe… or at least her powers do.”

 

Natasha let out an exasperated sigh.

 

“God _DAMN_ it.”

* * *

  _So, about these “Avengers”... who and what are they?_

 

“They’re a group of superheroes who work together to… well, you can guess what they do. We got lucky-we only got Iron Man and Black Widow, and all we left behind were the pieces of the golems. We have some time to try to establish an alias that seems legit enough to keep them from finding out my identity.” Luna explained.

 

    _You are a thief. Should you simply not be able to hide in the shadows until something else has their attention?_

 

“Yeah, valid point, but that’ll only work if I can turn back to my original form… Think that’s possible?”

 

    _I would imagine so… the same way you use your other powers, if it is possible… but do you not work with others?_

 

“Yeah, I do, why-oh….”

 

    _A testimony to the contrary of whatever lie you conceive will discredit you. If you hypnotize them, you can ensure the safety of your identity._

 

Luna shook her head.

 

“No, I'm not brainwashing my friends. That's not right.”

 

    Nael groaned.

 

    _You would instead take a chance that their loyalty to you would be enough to convince them to lie?_

 

“You'd be surprised.”

 

    _I've been thoroughly surprised from the moment I merged with you._

 

    “Is that an insult or a compliment?”

 

_You figure it out._

 

“...You'll learn.”

 

_….We shall see._

 

    Luna sighed, took off from her perch on the hillside, and flew towards home.

* * *

 

    The young, new hero arrived at the base of operations for her crew, and managed to pop open a window, squirm in with some effort, before closing it. She collapsed on her bed. The fight had exhausted her. She went into her room, closed the door, and collapsed on her bed, wings and tail resting on the bed.

 

    _Hmph. Why am I not surprised that a young woman who has never tasted true battle is so thoroughly exhausted from nothing? I do suppose your stamina will increase with future battles, however._

 

    “Shut the fuck up, Nael. I'm not self-entitled war bitch. I was just another thief, but now, thanks to this whole clusterfuck of a situation, I have to deal with your brand of bullshit!"

 

    _It was **you** who refused to submit, and **you** who decided to be stupidly altruistic._ _And I have no desire to be in this situation any more than you do._

 

    “Well, I wasn’t just gonna stand around and do nothing!”

 

    _...What sort of world is this, that a thief has some semblance of a moral code, enough to foolishly risk her life to save strangers?_

 

“Maybe it's foolish to you, but to the majority of people, helping others out is actually a good thing!”

 

    _...Whatever._

 

    With that, Nael seemed to fade a bit-undoubtedly resting. Luna huffed, before curling up and sighing heavily. It was late… she figured she might as well go ahead and sleep.


	4. A Normal Day?

Luna woke up from her nap (which later turned out to be through the night), and stretched. Nael wasn’t far behind, quietly yawning. Luna took a deep breath in, and looked around her room, before looking at herself. Still in the draconic form that she remembered… so, it had all really happened. She groaned a bit, burying her face in her hands. 

 

_ You were not  _ **_sincerely_ ** _ hoping that it was all a figment of your imagination, were you? You really  _ **_are_ ** _ annoyingly naive!  _ Nael asked sarcastically. 

 

“You’ll have to forgive me for not exactly being raised in a war zone, where every second I had to worry about whether or not I was going to die!” Luna snapped, looking up.

 

_ Oh yes, since apparently, in this realm, things are quiet enough that the likes of us, with all of our power, have enough time to waste on defusing a hostage situation!  _

 

“It ended up being relevant! There were Dalamudian Golems! And even if there weren’t any golems, I still would’ve done something!”

 

_ Yes, you’ve made that very clear by now!  _

 

“You are such an asshole!”

 

_ And you are so very naive! So I suppose we are at an impasse!  _

 

“Well, you’re stuck with me, SO DEAL WITH IT!” 

 

An angry growl was Nael’s response, before she finally shut up. Luna rubbed her head.

 

“Like worrying about school wasn’t enough… And don’t even think about saying anything, Nael!”

 

Another angry growl. Luna began to worry how she was going to focus enough to study properly with such an irritating presence in her mind. She rolled out of bed, yelping when she crushed her tail accidentally.

 

_ What, did you forget you had that as well? You need to be more careful-I feel everything you feel!  _ Nael told her. Luna grabbed a pillow, and buried her face in it, before getting up and starting to prepare for yet another day at school… and then, she blinked.

 

“Uhh… Please tell me I can turn back to human…”

 

_ I don’t see a reason as to why not… _

 

Luna winced as she willed her body back to normal, panting as she finished. She caught her breathed, and let it out.

 

“Note to self… need to develop pain tolerance.”

* * *

 

_...Why in the name of the Emperor do you need to know this strange “quadratic formula” that is on the board? What good will it do you in your daily life?  _

 

__ Luna, bored out of her mind in algebra class, chuckled softly, not really looking at the board, but instead, looking outside.

 

“I wonder the same thing…” She muttered very softly, almost inaudible-

 

“Miss Rubra, would you care to tell us how to solve this problem using the quadratic formula?”

 

Luna snapped to attention, looking at the board…. And strangely, not only was she able to remember the steps clearly, but she managed to  _ solve it  _ in mere  _ seconds…  _ Had merging with Nael enhanced her brain somehow?

 

“...4x minus 3 times the square root of 5 over 2.”

 

“Now, Miss Rubra, if you were paying attention-”The teacher stopped. “-what?”

 

“The answer… it’s… um… 4x minus 3 times the square root of 5 over 2.” 

 

“Yes, but… how did you  _ know? _ ” The teacher asked, bewildered. The whole class turned and stared at Luna, which caused her to shrink back a bit and look around nervously. She had to fight to keep her form human and not turn draconic.

 

“Uhh… lucky guess?”

* * *

 

“Okay, Luna, be real. How  _ did  _ you know?” 

 

“I don’t know, Tia! Sometimes your head just figures out things when you aren’t even thinking about it!” Luna exclaimed, frustrated. Her friend, Celestia, was talking with her at her house. Celestia folded her arms, looking at Luna with jade green eyes that spoke her disbelief. She ran a hand through her midnight black hair, and crossed her legs. Luna leaned over her desk, and Celestia placed a consoling hand on Luna’s shoulder. 

 

“Luna, I know when you’re lying. We’ve been friends since third grade, for God’s sake! You can tell me anything!”

 

Luna took a deep breath.

 

“...You can not tell  _ anyone  _ about this. I mean  _ anyone.  _ Not even one of the Avengers, okay?”

 

Celestia swallowed, but nodded.

 

“Alright…”

 

Luna stood up from her chair, and walked a good few feet from her friend. She let go of her human form, releasing blinding light…

 

“Holy shit!” 

 

Celestia was awestruck at Luna’s draconic form… and then, stars lit up her eyes. 

 

“You… you look  **_SO FRIGGIN’ AWESOME!”_ **

 

_ …What does she mean? What is… “awesome”? _

 

__ “It’s complicated.”

 

_ Like many other things. _

 

__ “Oh my God, don’t tell me-you have someone else in your head! Luna, you have to be a superhero!!”

 

“...I kinda already am.”

 

Celestia looked confused.

 

“...I’m calling myself the White Raven. I defused a hostage situation-Tia?!”

 

Celestia had taken one of Luna’s hands in her own, and was stroking it. Luna looked at her friend, confused. 

 

“Amazing! I’m so psyched! I’m best friends with a superhero! Oh, I-” Luna, knocked Celestia out with a fist.

 

_ I thought she would never shut up.  _

 

“For once, I agree with you… fuck, what have we gotten ourselves into?” 

 

_...Even I am unsure. But you had best hope that your “friend” can keep your secret.  _

 

__ “I know she will. Tia and I have known each other for years. She wouldn’t betray me.”

 

_ If you are so convinced. _

 

__ Luna facepalmed.

 

“We have a lot of work to do…”


End file.


> Something worth nothing-I will be using mostly Japanese terminology for the Ryuusei no Rockman elements, as they just tend to sound better in my head. I will not be purely using the Japanese terms, but I will be mostly using them. I hope you enjoy the fic!

Chapter 1: Blademaster

“Everyone, please take your seats!”

 

The students did as told, morning light shining into the classroom. The teacher smiled at his students. 

 

“Before we begin today's lesson, I have an exciting announcement-we have a new student joining us today!” 

 

The students murmured amongst one another, before the teacher cleared his throat, silencing them. He looked over to the door.

 

“Miss Jade, you can come in now!”

 

The door opened, and a young girl walked in. She wore a lightweight set of sapphire blue armor, with silver highlights, consisting of a breastplate that had side sections attached to it, as well as a front section over her midsection. A sectioned backplate protected her entire backside, all of this cutting off at the waist. Shoulder pauldrons offered more protection, and plates protected both her upper and lower arm. 

 

Around her waist was a long armored skirt, with leg guards mirroring the style of the ones on her arms. Armored boots protected her feet, and she held a katana in a sapphire blue sheath by a dark blue handle. She looked a bit intimidating, with seemingly-emotionless sapphire blue eyes and long blue hair, and tanned skin. A thin diagonal scar went across the space between her nose and her left eye as well. 

 

“Miss Jade, would you please introduce yourself to the class, and tell us a bit about yourself?”

 

“...Hello. My name is Alexandria Jade. My family has a tradition of swordsmanship, and I carry that on as well.”

 

She lifted up the katana.

 

“...This is  **_Shinku no Raion no Kiba,_ ** also known as the  **_Ame-no-Hibikari._ ** It is a blade that has been handed down for generations in my family. Do not touch it unless I say it is okay, or I will kill you.” 

 

The whole class cringed notably at the threat. She lowered her katana, satisfied that her point had been made. 

 

“Well, Miss Jade, why don't you have a seat next to Hoshikawa-kun?” 

 

“...Fine.”

 

The swordswoman walked to the assigned seat, and sat down. She slung the band of her sheath over her body, and got to work…

* * *

 

“Eh? The sword was giving off intense Denpa Waves?”

 

A nod from War-Rock. 

 

_ “No two ways about it, kid. That sword has a Wizard living in it… And a damn powerful one, at that.” _

 

Subaru sighed.

 

“If that sword serves as her Hunter, then that would explain the death threat she made… that sword clearly means a lot to her.” 

 

_ “Wouldn't be surprised if it's all she has left of her family. You humans tend to be clingy like that.”  _

 

Subaru shrugged his shoulders. 

 

“It's normal…. I wonder if she's capable of Denpa-Henkan…”

 

_ “We'll find out soon enough, I bet….” _

* * *

 

“...The boy I sat next to, Hoshikawa Subaru… He has an uncanny resemblance to the famed hero, Rockman…”

 

Alexandria sat on the school’s rooftop, looking over the darkened nighttime landscape.

 

_ “You suspect that a mere child is one half of such a famed hero?”  _ A male voice questioned.

 

“You merge with me, and I am a young woman…”

 

_ “You are a swordswoman, above all else. You overcame me, and that is why we are together. And yet, this world continues to be full of surprises…”  _

 

“...He must have some degree of strength, if he is half the hero the world claims he is…” 

 

_ “But how much of that is true strength, and how much is mere contrivance and luck?”  _

 

“Hard to tell, really… Still, he clearly is no trained warrior. He will be weaker than us.”

 

A chuckle from the male voice.

 

_ “On that, we can agree, my dear warrior…”  _

 

Alexandria smiled as she leaned against a shadow. The shadow wrapped his arms around her, and they shared a brief moment-

 

The wail of sirens interrupted the moment. A growl came from both the shadow and Alex, and she drew her katana out from its sheath, before raising it skyward. The shadow entered the katana.

 

“Denpa-henkan, Alexandria Jade, On-Air!” 

 

She slashed the katana downwards, and crimson-red light surged forth, enveloping her torso first, then her arms, legs, and finally, her head, before it all “shattered”, unveiling elaborate black armor that was difficult to see in the dark night. The “eyes” in the mask flared bright crimson red as the katana took on a reddish-blackish aura…

 

“Art of the Sword: Flame Slash!” 

 

She swung the sword diagonally, releasing a burst of flame that struck the ground, exploding violently and forcing the Satella Police cars to screech to a halt before the flames. By the time the flames were safely vacuumed away, she had vanished. Ace cursed under his breath.

 

“She’s certainly quick…” He muttered to himself.


End file.

